name,oracle,generated_summary
b_2005nssf21.txt,"The parties were married for 13 years and had three children. Both parties appeared to have a standard of living higher than their personal annual income would dictate; the husband by funneling many of his personal expenses through his company and the wife with the financial assistance of her parents. The wife sought lump sum spousal support to cover the cost of her tuition for a three year course in a divinity college. In addition to the matrimonial home, the parties owned various rental properties. Joint custody of the children ordered with primary day to day care to be with the wife; in the event that the parties cannot agree on any major issue concerning the children, the final decision will be made by the wife; income attributed to the husband for child support purposes; piano lessons and musical instruments found to be extraordinary expenses within the meaning of s. 7 of the Guidelines but soccer, tennis and horseback riding are not; no spousal support ordered; all property equally divided. The wife's father had given her one rental property from which the rental proceeds went to the mortgage and into the parties' joint bank account; the husband was extensively involved in the operation of the property. This property was found to be a gift to the wife that became a matrimonial asset during the marriage as it was operated as a family venture. A second rental property was purchased by the husband and the wife's brother; the wife considered herself a partner in the venture even though her name was left off the deed. This property was also found to be a matrimonial asset.","The parties agreed that a Joint Custody Order would be granted for the three children. The mother was to have exclusive possession of the matrimonial home and the father was to pay basic guideline support for the children in the amount of $350,000. The parties also agreed that primary care would remain with the mother. The father opposed the payment of spousal support but sought authorization to obtain passports. Both parents were to cooperate in obtaining passports. Although the mother was not prepared to admit that she was not included in the numbered company because she was ill at the time and not paying attention, she testified that she had been involved in the operation of the property for the past ten years and that it was a gift to her from her parents, albeit an encumbered one. Both were to have access on specific terms."
b_2017skqb81.txt,"HELD: The issues were determined as follows: 1) the applicant applied pursuant to The Seizure of Criminal Property Act, 2009, as that version of the Act was in place at the time of the seizure. The respondent argued that s. 35.1 did not apply at the time of seizure, because it was not in the Act at the time of seizure. The respondent argued that the two-year limitation period pursuant to The Limitations Act applied to the application with the date of seizure being the date of discoverability. The respondent also argued that the 2009 Act did not have retrospective application. The court found that the applicant applied pursuant to the 2009 Act and therefore the matter was assessed from that perspective. Section 35.1 of the 2009 Act required applications for forfeiture to be made within two years from the director becoming satisfied that the property sought to be forfeited was proceeds of unlawful activity or an instrument of unlawful activity. The court found that the words “Notwithstanding The Limitations Act” at the beginning of s. 35.1 served to provide an intention to prioritize the content of s. 35.1 over The Limitations Act. An affidavit filed by the applicant indicated that the director became satisfied that the property was an instrument of unlawful activity after August 2016. The director’s application was brought four months later, well within the two-year limitation period. The court then considered whether the 2009 Act had retrospective application and found that B. had the same legal position and faced the same jeopardy regardless of the version of the legislation, and therefore, there was no retrospective problem;  2) s. 7 outlined the test to apply. The court accepted the expert’s evidence with regards to the significance of the factors evidencing drug trafficking and how common they were to the drug trafficking trade. The applicant’s evidence also showed that the person alleging to purchase the truck from the respondent was not the purchaser and the purchase price was $8,000, not $16,000. The court found it more likely than not that the money was proceeds of unlawful activity; and 3) B. did not provide evidence or argument to support the exception that forfeiture would clearly not be in the interests of justice. The property was found to be proceeds of unlawful activity and the forfeiture order was granted.","The Director applied for an order directing the forfeiture of $10,475.00 to the Crown in right of Saskatchewan. The property had been seized by the Regina Police Service from William Ross Butler in 2008. The Director filed affidavits in support of the Director. HELD: The Director's application was granted. The evidence on when the Directorbecame satisfied that the seized property constituted proceeds of unlawful activity is found in the Affidavit of Tammy Pryznyk sworn December 15, 2016. The Court accepted the Director as an expert qualified to express an opinion in the area of controlled drugs and substances, trafficking, language, packaging, accoutrements and paraphernalia associated with substances addressed in the CDSA. Section of the 2009 Act provides that no proceedings with respect to claim may be commenced after two years from the day on which the claim is discovered (s. 5). This time period is considered to be the beginning of any such action. The legislation is not retroactive. There is no retroactivity problem. The starting point for the commencement of the limitation period is not the date of seizure as contended by Mr. Butler but the day of discovery. The date of charges is irrelevant as is the finding of criminal culpability."
3_2004skqb374.txt,"FIAT: In 1996, the respondent was ordered to pay $600 per month as child support for his daughter. He now applies to reduce his support obligation and rescind the arrears which have accumulated. HELD: 1) In 1999, the respondent sold his ownership interest in a business and retained a one-third interest. In 2001, he was terminated from his full-time employment as a result of an unexplained absence from work after he received a suspension for insubordination. Since his termination, he has not obtained full-time employment. He has continued to work seasonally 3 months a year and earn the gross amount of $21,000. The Court found that it is the respondent's choice to work a minimum amount each year. It has been said that individuals, who are subject to support obligations, are entitled to make decisions in relation to their careers as long as the decisions are reasonable at the time having regard to the circumstances. The respondent's decision to work only three months a year and to possibly return to school is not reasonable. 2) For the purposes of this application, the respondent's income was imputed to be $40,000 and he was ordered to pay $328 per month as support for his daughter. 3) The sharing of the s. 7 special expenses should be based on the respondent's imputed income. 4) A retroactive variation of child support is warranted. The respondent commenced his application for variation in June 2002 and the chambers judge was of the view that any variation of support should be retroactive to September 2002.  In light of the fact the respondent's previous support obligation was tax deductible/tax inclusive, the petitioner may in fact benefit from a retroactive variation as the child support she will receive, pursuant to this order, will be payable on a net of tax basis.  5) Rule 608(2) provides that a successful party will be entitled to costs of a family law proceeding unless, pursuant to Rule 608(3), the successful party has behaved unreasonably or has acted in bad faith. The difficulty in the matter before me is determining whether or not the respondent has been successful. Although his support obligation decreases, his previous payment was tax deductible while his ongoing payment will be net of tax. It is very likely that the respondent's financial position has not changed as a result of the order. The Court also had grave concerns respecting the substantial delays in the proceedings caused by the respondent's unwillingness to provide financial disclosure. Costs were awarded to the petitioner in the sum of $750, as the discovery motion would not have been necessary had the respondent provided appropriate financial disclosure.","FIAT. The father was ordered to pay child support of $600 per month for the child. He applied to reduce his support obligation and rescind arrears which accumulated under the 1996 order. The primary questions to be answered were: what is the father's current income; is he underemployed; should the child support variation be retroactive; should costs of the application be granted to either Ms. Lilley or T.F. Huber. HELD: On all of the evidence, the father was undereployed. His choice to work a minimum amount each year and, if he should return to school, it will be his choice to attend school and severely limit his earnings for a significant period of time. It is clear that the decision to work only three months of the year and/or returned to school is not a reasonable decision when he has a continuing obligation to provide support for his child, Stephanie.  1) The father's financial position has not changed as a result of the order for child support. He has not provided appropriate financial disclosure.  2) The mother has requested costs as against the father for the additional legal expenses associated with having to submit motions to the Court in order to force the father to disclose financial information.  3) Costs awarded to the mother for the discovery motion which heard in this matter. The difficulty in the matter is determining whether or not the father has, indeed, been successful on this variation application. Although the mother's support obligation decreases from the monthly sum of $400 to $600, his previous payment was tax deductible while his ongoing payment will be net of tax. It appears that he's not intentionally imputing income to the father on a tax basis. He's made an effort to locate employment opportunities that are available to him within the meaning of s. 19(1)(a) of the Federal Child Support Guidelines. 4) The family has grave concerns respecting the substantial delays in this proceeding which delays were primarily the result of Mr. Pilat's unwillingness to provide adequate financial disclosure to the court."
7_2006skca94.txt,"The tenants apply pursuant to s. 49(2) of The Residential Tenancies Act for leave to appeal a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench reviewing a decision of the Rentalsman. HELD: Application allowed.  1) The parties agree that the rent for July was paid on July 27. The landlord then immediately applied for and was granted a writ of possession. 2) The tenants advise that the landlord holds the equivalent of one month's rent as security for the payment of the last month rent of the tenancy. The landlord claims it is a security deposit. 3) The tenants claim they tendered the arrears on the basis that the landlord would not apply for a writ of possession and that the arrears were accepted on that basis. 4) The Court of Queen's Bench Chambers judge dismissed the appellant's appeal the same day saying 'the rent for August has not been paid and not paid by required time, appeal is dismissed'. 5) The first issue on appeal is whether the Chambers judge erred in finding the Rentalsman had jurisdiction to make the order granting possession on the basis that 'the rent was 15 days in arrears when the Notice of Termination of the tenancy agreement was served and the tenant has failed to vacate the premises in accordance with the Notice' if the landlord accepted the rent in lieu of seeking a writ of possession. The second issue on appeal is whether the Chambers judge erred in considering that the subsequent month's rent was not paid.","The tenants apply pursuant to s.49(2) of The Residential Tenancies Act[1] for leave to appeal a decision of the Court of Queen's Bench reviewing a decision the Rentalsman granted. Her reasons were that the rent was 15 days or more in arrears when the Notice of Termination of the tenancy was served and the tenant had failed to vacate the premises in accordance with the Notice. The tenants indicate that they could not have agreed to pay the August rent because they would not have been in position to pay future rent on that day. The rent for July in the amount of $640 was paid on July 27 plus late payment fee of $25 were granted. The landlord immediately applied for and was granted a writ of possession. No further hearing was held. HELD: The tenants have until 4:00 p.m. on August 31, 2006 to serve and file their notice of appeal or 15 days thereafter to file their appeal book and factum. There will be no order as to costs.  1) The Court of Appeal has jurisdiction derived from ss.49 of the Residential Tenancy Act [2] which reads: 49(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision or order of the Rentalalsman may appeal the decision or make an order in this Court within 30 days of the date of this decision. 2) The court has jurisdiction in ss.47(3) of the Act [4) and s.47 of the Courts of Appeal within the meaning of section 47(1)."
8_2007skpc1.txt,"The accused applies for relief pursuant to the Charter on the basis of post-charge delay denying her the right to have her trial in a reasonable time. HELD: There was a Charter breach and the appropriate remedy is a stay of proceedings.  1) The length of delay in this case from the date of charge to the date of trial is approximately 31 months. The Supreme Court proposed as a general guideline a delay of 8 to 10 months in Provincial Court as acceptable. This is consistent with the reality in Buffalo Narrows, where trials are set within 6 months of entering a plea. 2) 12 months of the delay can be attributed to the accused. 6 months was deducted from the delay for inherent time requirements in arranging for the accused's appearance in Court. The remaining delay of 13 months is either attributable to the Crown or caused by factors outside the control of the accused. 3) In this case the accused has suffered actual prejudice in that the delay in bringing this matter to Court from the time of swearing the Information to the date of trial has prejudiced the accused's ability to make full answer and defence and her right to a fair trial. While the restrictions on employment opportunities caused some prejudice, this could have been overcome by applications to amend her conditions of release. 4) There have been four trial dates set on these charges, resulting in a lengthy delay to a verdict being reached. No explanation is offered for the adjournments except for the last adjournment caused by bad weather.","The accused applies for relief pursuant to the Charter of Rights on the basis of post-charge delay denying her the right to have her trial in a reasonable time. HELD: There was a Charter breach and the appropriate remedy is a stay of proceedings.  1) There was no waiver of the delay caused by the adjournments of May 19, 2004 to November 3, 2004. 2) The weather caused delay from November 29, 2006 to January 19, 2007. The defence not waiving delay 3) The length of delay in this case is approximately thirty-one months. There were some delays attributable to the accused in time until she was ready to enter pleas, and later until she wasn't ready to have the matter rescheduled for trial. Otherwise, she appeared on all court dates and was diligent about having the charges set. Limitations on institutional resources caused delay of approximately two months. 4) The court found that there was no cause for the delay as there had not been a full answer to all of the questions as to whether or not there had been a breach of the Charter."
e_2001skqb128.txt,"The mother had custody of the 12 and year olds under the terms of the January 10, 2000 consent judgment. The father applied to vary child support in November on the basis of his reduced income. HELD: The application was dismissed with costs to the petitioner fixed at $1,000. The onus is on the applicant to provide cogent, independent or objective verification of change of circumstances. This application was brought 10 months after the pre-trial conference. It was of no consequence that someone may come into the home rather than using commercial day care service. There was no change in the father's hours of work or the schedule. The only change was that the mother was no longer available to provide care during Saturday of his access weekends. The mother was not to schedule activities during the father's access periods without his consent and he was to provide 7 days written notice if he chooses not to exercise access during specified times. This was not a variation of the custody/access regime but rather specific directions to provide some predictability for the children.","The parties applied to vary the child support provisions of the consent judgment arising out of a settlement pre-trial conference. The consent judgment provided that the petitioner should have access to the children of the marriage at all reasonable times including on alternate weekends. The respondent was to pay $1,000 per month for support, maintenance and education of the children. The child support payable by the petitioner was to be set out in the table amount and the access provisions were varied so that access could be varied according to the parties' income.HELD: Application dismissed. 1)The material did not satisfy the Court that there had been any material change in the circumstances of the child. The matter must be revisited to provide a reasonable basis for variation. 2)The respondent's income had changed substantially from the time he last reported income of $43,386 to $44,386 in 1999. His taxable income in 1999 was $42,386.40. In 2000 it was $40,386 and it was anticipated that it would be $45,000. 3)If the level of child support was simply an agreed upon amount the question is whether there has been some change in his circumstances which would make the income imputed to the respondent inappropriate. Once a material change becomes apparent the question becomes whether it is appropriate to revisit the matter as a matter of urgency. Once such a question becomes a material matter the matter is revisited and a reasonable amount of support is provided. Once again the respondent did not provide material support in the manner requested. There was no material change as suggested by the Guidelines."" 4)An order varying, rescinding, suspending, retroactively or any provision thereof on application by either or both former spouses or by any other person did not constitute variation of the custody/access regime but rather specific directions with respect to execution of the access regime."
3_2000canlii19612.txt,"The plaintiffs claim for crop damage caused by the defendant's cattle entering the plaintiff's canola field. The defendant denies he is responsible or negligent, but admits his cattle were in the field.HELD: Damages were awarded in the amount of $2,533.45. The court valued the loss at $3,052.36. It then deducted 2% attributed to wild animal damage, 5% for the plaintiffs failure to calculate actual yield from the rest of the crop, 5% that the plaintiffs would have paid in dockage and 5% for the cost of production. Civil liability for crop damage caused by cattle flows from the Stray Animals Act. A cattle owner is strictly liable for damages caused by his straying cattle.  This liability may possibly even be absolute and only an act of god may serve as a defence. The issue here is the quantum of the damage. The fact that the defendant was refused access to the plaintiff's property to repair the fence has no bearing on liability in this case. An independent adjuster assessed the damage at 557 bushels. The court found on the facts that the damage was caused exclusively by the defendant's cattle on several occasions.","The plaintiff's claim against the defendant was for crop damage sustained as a result of his cattle getting into the plaintiff's canola field in late July 1999. The defendant denied liability under s.27 of the Stray Animals Act and denied negligence in looking after his cattle. HELD: The plaintiff was awarded judgment in the amount of $2,533.45 plus pre-judgment interest and costs.  1)The law in Saskatchewan is clear that a cattle owner is liable for such loss as is caused by the entry of cattle onto the crop of another. The law was clear that the defendant's cattle caused the entire crop loss which the plaintiffs sustained. It was mere supposition that other neighbours' cattle were in the canola during the relevant period. Given the knowledge that neighbours have of each other in rural Saskatchewan, it would be expected that such a by-law is not in effect in their rural municipality. 2)The cattle did move onto the field unbeknownst to the defendant, his spouse, his brother, or his hired help. This was so even though the Carrot River did not prove to be an impediment on this occasion. There was no evidence credibly suggesting that water would have hindered the cattle on earlier occasions. The plaintiff's cattle were all accounted for and had not been on the plaintiffs' land. 3)Judgment interest from January 5, 2000 was awarded to the plaintiff. 4)The plaintiff was entitled to give opinion evidence with respect to crop damage and assessment of crop damage."
b_1995canlii5775.txt,"An application was brought under ss.58 and 59 of The Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act seeking approval for a proposal made by Gustafson Pontiac Buick. The proposal had received the necessary proportion of support from Gustafson's creditors. One unsecured creditor opposed the application. HELD: 1)Under s. 59(2), before it can approve a proposal, the Court must be satisfied; (a) that the terms are reasonable; (b) that the terms are calculated to benefit the general body of creditors; and (c) that the proposal is made in good faith. 2)In determining whether to approve a proposal, the court must consider not only the wishes and interests of creditors, but also the conduct and interests of the debtor, the interests of the public and future creditors and the requirements of commercial morality. 3)If, however, a large majority of creditors, i.e., substantially in excess of the statutory majority, have voted for acceptance of a proposal, it will take strong reasons for the court to substitute its judgment for that of the creditors. 4)Gustafson had met the criteria set out in the Act and the authorities referred to in Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law of Canada, and accordingly the proposal was approved.","This was an application pursuant to ss. 58 and 59 of the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act for the approval of a proposal made pursuant to s. 50 of the Act by Gustafson to its various creditors. The application was opposed by one of the creditors. HELD: 1) Generally Under s. 59(2), the court before it can approve proposal must be satisfied that the terms are reasonable, the terms were reasonable, are calculated to benefit the Prairie Security Fund and the guarantors of the secured creditors of the corporation and not the general body of creditors. 2) The proposal did not comply with the requirements of the bankruptcy and insolvency legislation because it did not provide that all monies payable under the proposal, specifically those monies that payable to GM and GMAC, shall be paid to the trustee as required by s. 60(2) of the Bruptcy Act.  3) The Court must consider not only the wishes and interests of creditors but also the conduct and interest of the public and future creditors and requirements of commercial morality. The case cited by Oak Bluff (Fisher Oil Gas Corporation and Peat Marwick Limited v. Guaranty Bank Trust Company), 1982 CanLII 1791 (ON CA), 44 C.B.R. 225 (Ont. C.A.)) is not of assistance to her in this regard. 4) The criteria to be followed by the Court on an application of this nature is set out in ss.59(2). The Court shall refuse to approve the proposal If the proposal is approved, the parties agree that the unsecured creditors of Gustfson will receive approximately 10ï¿½ to 11ï¼ on the dollar of the indebtedness and the creditors will receive nothing. If it is not approved the proposal will be properly approved by the creditors in accordance with sec. 54(2)(d) and sub-divisions of the creditor class are set out. 5) The court must consider the wishes of creditors, but also their conduct and interests. 6) This is an unfortunate description as the Act contemplates only three categories of creditors preferred, secured and unsecund. The proposal is effectively nothing more than a 'holding proposal'."
3_2002skqb54.txt,"The wife sought an order for equal distribution of matrimonial property. They married in 1988, each for a second time, and separated in 1997. Each had significant assets at the time of the marriage, which had increased in value. They agreed at the time of the marriage to keep their assets separate and to not make a claim on the assets of the other and that their entire estates would be left to their respective children.  The wife argued the agreement was not applicable to the present situation where they have separated and was only in effect during the time of the marriage or upon their deaths. HELD: The wife was entitled to judgment for $54,000. 1)There was no conflict in the evidence as to the verbal agreement made at the time of the marriage nor as to their intention. This is an appropriate situation to apply s.40 of the Family Property Act. The fact they each executed a will to give effect to that intention and the husband paid practically all of the day-to-day expenses led to the conclusion their verbal agreement should be considered binding, notwithstanding their marriage ended by separation rather than death. 2)The condominium purchased by the husband was the 'family home' as provided for in s.2(1)(a). There was no extraordinary circumstance as provided in s.22(1), which would prevent equal division of the value of the family home. The Melville residence owned by the wife at the time of the marriage was exempt in accordance with their agreement. It had not increased in value and the wife solely paid its maintenance. 3)No costs.","The petitioner seeks an order for equal distribution of matrimonial property. The parties married in 1988 and separated in 1997. Each had significant assets at the time of the marriage. They both testified that their marriage was over but, at the request of the petitioner, reconciliation was effected after brief separation. They each completed new wills shortly after the marriage to this effect. HELD: 1)The petitioner was entitled to judgment for half of the value of the assets acquired after marriage. The respondent's assets were greater in value than the petitioner's. 2)There was no evidence of any extraordinary circumstance as provided in s.22(1) of the Act which would prevent the valueof the family home from being divided equally between the parties. 3)The parties resided in their home for approximately three and one-half years. After the marriage, the petitioner returned to her residence which the parties agree was at one time the 'family home' of the parties pursuant to s. 22(3) of The Family Property Act as the parties resided therein for most of themarriage. The petitioner's investments and assets increased significantly in value during the time the parties lived together. 4)The court was not satisfied there was any 'extraordinary circumstance' (see s.40 of the Family Property act) that would prevent a value of family home to be divided equally. 5)The Court concluded that the marriage was practically bound by the verbal intention of each parties that they would not make claims on the assets of the other. They executed new wills respecting the inheritance of all of their assets.  6)In the circumstances no order as to costs."
c_1997canlii9802.txt,"An appeal from an order which quashed an interim order of the Labour Relations Board (LRB) pending the determination of a grievance by an arbitration board, even though no proceedings were pending before the LRB and even though it had no power to make a final order respecting the proceedings before the arbitration board. At issue was whether s5.3 of the Trade Union Act authorized the Board to make such an order. HELD: The appeal was dismissed with costs.  1)The Board recognized the question to be a jurisdictional question. The standard of review is whether the decision was correct rather than patently unreasonable. 2)The chambers judge arrived at the correct conclusion whether from the point of view of the plain meaning of the words of s5.3 or the context of the entire statute or a purposive approach.  3)S5.3 refers to the 'board' which is defined by s2(c) to be the LRB and accordingly referred to applications and orders of the LRB. The interim power is not only based on the final power but is also part of the final power and both are part of the same process. 4)S25(1), when read with ss(1.1) and (1.2) indicates an intention on the part of the legislators to grant exclusive jurisdiction to arbitration boards to deal with disputes arising out of the interpretation of collective agreements. 5)Whatever the scope of s42, it cannot be used to release the restrictions of a statutory provision the very purpose of which is to define the jurisdiction of the LRB to act in respect of such matters.","The appellant appealed an order which quashed an interim order of the Labour Relations Board pending the determination of a grievance by an arbitration board, even though no proceedings were pending before the Board, and even though it had no power to make any final order respecting the proceedings before the arbitration board. HELD: The appeal was dismissed with costs in the usual way. 1)Section 5.3 both confers and limits the jurisdiction of the Board to make interim orders. The question decided by the Board was clearly a jurisdictional question and so treated it as one that was clearly patently unreasonable. 2)Whether one approaches the question from the point of view of the plain meaning of the words of s.5.3, or from the context of the entire statute, the result is the same. The chambers judge arrived at a correct conclusion. The ordinary meaning of words of 5.5 require two conditions for the exercise of the power to makes interim orders: the existence of an application or complaint before the board, andthe existence of power in the Labour Committee to make final order in respect of the application. 3)S.25(1) indicates an intention on the part of the legislators to grant exclusive jurisdiction to arbitration boards to deal with disputes arising out of the interpretation of collective agreements. Nor is there anything in s.25 or the other sections of the Act dealing with resolution of disputes by arbitration to indicate an intention to grant supervisory or other powers to the Board."
e_2007skpc90.txt,"The plaintiff sues the defendant town for water damage sustained to her former residence when frozen pipes burst. The plaintiff claims she told the Town Office to shut off her water supply and the failure to do so let to the damages being sustained. HELD: The claim is dismissed. 1) There is no evidence that the plaintiff gave clear instructions to the town to shut off her water. 2) The proximate cause of the damage was turning off the heat and power without ensuring that water line, toilets, and the water tank had been properly drained. 3) The plaintiff sustained no damages herself. She admits she negotiated the sale price of $50,000 with her daughter prior to any damage being sustained to the property. No adjustment had to be made to her daughter thereafter for any 'loss' occasioned. Any claim would have to be made by her daughter not her.","The plaintiff brought an action for water damage sustained to her former residence when frozen pipes burst in the basement. Her contention is that she instructed the Town Office to shut off her water supply and the failure to do so led to the damages being sustained. The Town of Martensville disputes that such instructions were given and that, in any event, the cause of the pipes bursting was not a result of the water not being turned off, but rather because the plaintiff had the power and heat disconnected. HELD: The plaintiff's action was dismissed. There was no order as to costs. 1)The Court could not find clear instructions given by the plaintiff to the town to disconnect the water service. To the contrary, the form executed by her clearly indicates request for final billing. The evidence demonstrates a misunderstanding at best between what the plaintiff believed she was requesting and what in fact she did instruct. This cannot be construed as negligence in the circumstances by the town nor does the fact that specific forms are now utilized for disconnect purposes elevate the matter on the facts before the Court, to negligence by the Town. 2)The plaintiff was awarded costs of the action."
6_2009skqb394.txt,"The plaintiff bought a house. She used the services of Cecilia Mui, a realtor associated with the defendant 100% Realty Associates Ltd. operating as Re/max Saskatoon. The house was purchased from the defendants Edward and Verl Karpinski. The vendors' realtor was the defendant, Mario Jacobucci, owner of the defendant Trevi Holdings Ltd. The house did not meet the plaintiff's expectations. She now sues the defendants seeking recovery of damages for alleged latent defects. She claims Ms. Mui fell below the standard of care required of a realtor representing a purchaser. She claims Ms. Mui was negligent in misrepresenting certain facts and breached the fiduciary duty expected of her. The plaintiff claims the Karpinskis misrepresented facts to her, negligently and fraudulently. The plaintiff claims that Mr. Jacobucci and his company are liable to her in damages, both in negligence and as parties to the misrepresentations made by the vendors. Special and general damages are claimed as are aggravated damages and punitive damages. The trial took place over 22 days, spanning several years and included testimony from 14 witnesses. Two main issues are raised. The first is the liability of each of the defendants. The second issue is quantum of damages. The credibility of the parties is at the forefront of the determination of the issues. HELD: The vendors are liable to the plaintiff for breach of contract. Each of the defendants is a tortfeasor, each having breached an obligation or duty owed to the plaintiff, whether through negligence or misrepresentation. Their wrongful acts and omissions all contributed to the same damage. In that respect their liability is concurrent. The liability of the vendors and Mr. Jacobucci is joint, and that of Ms. Mui is several. As concurrent torfeasors, the fault for the damage shall be apportioned equally among the four of them.  1) Credibility is not a science, see R. v. Gagnon, 2006 SCC 17. It is not always possible to articulate with precision the complex intermingling of impressions that emerge after watching and listening to witnesses and attempting to reconcile the various versions of events. The principles and tools to be used in assessing credibility are summarized in Novak Estate (Re), 2008 NSSC 283. 2) Certain of the evidence of the Karpinskis and Ms. Mui is so unreliable that the whole of their evidence is cast with doubt. 3) The opinions and conclusions of Mr. Loraas and Mr. Epp are accepted by the court. They are professionals with no interest in the outcome of the action. Their evidence was largely unchallenged. The Court finds that the pine shakes were rotten, sealant had been applied to the shakes on at least two occasions and prior to the plaintiff offering to buy the property, the shakes were not properly installed allowing water to seep into the house, the skylight leaked and caulking had been applied to stop the leaking before the plaintiff offered to buy the house, there was improper and inadequate venting which resulted in moisture damage to the interior of the house and mold in the attic, the moisture damage in the house included damage to drywall and paint blisters. Nail pops throughout the house were largely the result of the house being moved. No inspection was done after the house was moved. 4) The Court finds the Karpinskis did not speak truthfully or completely when they answered the questions in the Property Condition Disclosure Statement (PCDS). The Court does not accept that the vendors were not aware of water and moisture damage arising from the improperly installed shingles, the missing ridge caps, the leaking skylight or the lack of venting. The sealant on the roof was sufficiently old to predate the plaintiff's purchase of the house. The vendors repaired the sink holes and moisture pockets and effectively concealed the problems. It should have been disclosed. Although the vendors denied knowing of the structural damage to their house, they knew the house had been cut in half and moved 300 kilometers and had sustained damage. The structural problems were concealed by the vendors through repairs to the dry wall, reinforcement at stress points, and repainting and patching of wall paper. The fact that the house had been cut in half and moved should have been disclosed on the PCDS. 5) It is not only current defects or ongoing problems that need to be disclosed on a PCDS. A prospective purchaser does not look to the PCDS only to ascertain that the roof is not leaking on the day it was signed, see Kaufmann v. Gibson, [2007] O.J. No. 2711 (Ont. S.C.) (QL). The Karpinskis are liable to the plaintiff for breach of contract for failing to disclose the existence of structural defects, damage due to water and roof leakage. The terms of the PCDS formed part of the agreement between the parties and the deliberate withholding of this information amounted to a false representation as to the condition of the home. With respect to damage arising from these defects, the doctrine of caveat emptor does not apply. 6) The requirements for negligent misrepresentation have been established by the plaintiff. The failure to disclose, or silence as to a known defect, amounts to an act of concealment of a material fact and has the same effect as an express misrepresentation and is sufficient to attract liability, Thomas v. Blackwell, 1999 SKQB 168. 7) The false representations knowingly made by the vendors and their silence as to material facts were fraudulent. 8) Ms. Mui was negligent and her conduct and advice to the plaintiff fell below the standard of care expected of a realtor acting for the purchaser of a rural property in 1999. She did not conduct any preliminary background checks with the Rural Municipality, which would include determining if proper permits had been obtained, prior to the plaintiff's offer to purchase. Ms. Mui did nothing more than merely mention a home inspection to the plaintiff on one occasion. At no time did she recommend a home inspection even after she knew the house had been moved and before the condition regarding a satisfactory PCDS was removed. Another reason to strongly recommend a home inspection would be in circumstances where the realtor knew that a rural municipality did not require building inspections and Ms. Mui knew this to be the case. The plaintiff relied on the representation of Ms. Mui to her detriment. Had Ms. Mui disclosed all material facts to the plaintiff and explained and recommended a home inspection, the Court is satisfied that the outcome for the plaintiff would have been different. Knowing the house had been moved and had not been inspected the plaintiff would have most likely reconsidered her decision to purchase. 9) The Court is satisfied that Mr. Jacabucci is liable to the plaintiff for negligent misrepresentation. He represented that the home was of 'quality construction'. This was incorrect. Mr. Jacobucci was also complicit in, and party to, the negligent misrepresentations made by the vendors in the PCDS. He knew the house had been moved and sustained damage. He also knew the skylight leaked. The plaintiff relied on these misrepresentations and damages resulted.  10) The costs incurred by the plaintiff to repair the house total $17,613. She is awarded $15,000 as compensation for personal time and effort that she expended in repairing the home. There is no evidence that the distress the plaintiff experienced constituted a physical injury, or a recognized psychiatric illness and she cannot be compensated for mental distress, whether under tort or breach of contract. She is awarded $10,000 for aggravated damages. Her claim for punitive damages is dismissed. Her claim for solicitor and client costs is dismissed. Corrigendum received dated December 3, 2009 and added to fulltext.","The plaintiff, now Sylvia Schira, decided to purchase a home. She hired the services of the defendant, Cecilia Mui, a realtor associated with the defendant 100% Realty Associates Ltd. After lengthy search, the plaintiff purchased the property in 1998. It was owned by the defendants, Edward and Verl Karpinski. Their realtor was a former employee of the municipality. She claimed that she suffered from mental and emotional distress as a result of the work undertaken. She also claimed aggravated damages against both parties for failing to obtain a Property Condition Disclosure Statement (PCDS) which formed a condition of the contract for sale. The PCDS was incorporated into the PCDS in the event that any defects were found in the home. The realtor and her husband were liable in negligence and as parties to the misrepresentations made by the parties, both in regard to the quality of the materials used and in the manner in which they had prepared the material for the inspection. HELD: 1) The court found that the defendant and Ms. Mui fell below the standard of care required of a real estate agent representing the purchaser of a residential property. The Court found that both parties were guilty of aggravated damages. 2) The Court rejected the offer of a wood-paneled skylight with asphalt shingles, which had been installed over the original wood. It would not have performed any of the repairs required of it as the wood was not of sufficient quality and would not last for 50 years. 3) The evidence from the parties who had inspected the property at the plaintiff's request was sufficient to warrant an inspection of the premises. There was no discussion of home inspection or home inspection at the time of the offer. The inspection was conducted after the property was moved from its original location. 4) The home was too expensive for the plaintiff to afford. The parties, along with the plaintiff, embarked upon an extensive search of the property for several years. The search for a suitable home expanded to acreages in the neighbouring environs. The rural municipality did not do any inspections of moved or newly constructed residences in the area. 5) The defendant's contractor was found to be a party to the proceedings and was held liable for approximately $1 million."
7_2001nssc49.txt,"The parties were divorced two years ago and the matter had been finalized by an appeal decision in June, 1999. Both parties made application to vary child support on the basis of changes (ups and downs) in the farming business. The respondent wife, who recently purchased a house, also applied for lump sum spousal support which claim had been disallowed by the Court of Appeal. Monthly spousal support terminated as wife now self-sufficient; child support increased due to increase in husband's income; lump sum payment of $8,000 awarded to wife to help pay her relocation expenses from move with husband given six months to pay lump sum, but monthly spousal support to continue until the $8,000 was paid in full. Applications to vary should not be entertained simply because of the usual ups and downs of the farming business; the court must strive to average out the individual's ability to pay in such circumstances in order to ensure stability of payments for both parties. Lump sum spousal support payments must not have the effect of a significant redistribution of the division of matrimonial property but the reasons for the belated application must be examined.","The parties applied to vary spousal and/or child support less than 2 years after being divorced and less than 1 year after the Court of Appeal decision which settled the support awards of the trial judge. The trial judge awarded the respondent a lump sum award of $10,000 on the basis that she planned to buy a home in the near future for which she would need $5,000 for a down payment on the home and for moving expenses, etc. The respondent now relies on a change in the respondent's income position only.HELD: 1) The respondent's annual income for support purposes is $41,000 and the respondent shall pay $8,000. The lump sum support award is not justified. Considering the moving expenses and the tax consequences of cashing in RRSP's and other expenses such as furniture, etc., it would appear that success has been divided and that accordingly each party should prima facie bear their own costs. 2) There was a great deal of expense incurred by both parties on these applications to date. The court clearly contemplated that the respondent could make an application to vary when she moved and purchased her own home. There was no time for future adjustments as circumstances evolve with growing children. The Court would encourage the parties to explore some form of mediation if they had difficulty reaching an agreement in the future."
1993canlii3448.txt,"The applicant sought an order for certiorari quashing a decision of the trial judge granting an adjournment and a prohibition from hearing the trial. In earlier hearings, the Crown and applicant had each sought new trial dates to ensure procurement of witnesses for trial. The Crown sought to subpoena the victim to testify. Due to the delay in obtaining authority to serve an out of town subpoena in New Brunswick, the Crown was unable to serve the victim until three days before trial. The victim did not learn of the trial date until the day before and was unable to attend. An adjournment was granted. The applicant contended the trial judge had exceeded his jurisdiction. Dismissing the application. It is within the jurisdiction of the trial judge to deal with the issue of adjournments in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code. Jurisdictional error is not to be equated with error of law. Any decision to grant an adjournment is therefore within the court's proper discretion. If a remedy exists, it is by way of an appeal and not a prerogative writ. In any event, the sequence of events was sufficient to justify the granting of an adjournment. There was neither neglect nor laches on the part of the Crown.","The applicant applied for an order of prohibition and certiorari directing that the judge of the Provincial Court and any other provincial court judge cannot hear the trial of the accused. The judge granted the application on the ground that he had not been familiar with the case and there was no controversy as to the events leading up to the witness not being available at the date of the trial. Dismissing the application, that the trial judge made a discretionary decision based on submissions of counsel. Both counsel made submissions and no controversy was involved as to how the witnesses could be procured at the future time."
9_1994canlii4844.txt,"This decision is supplementary to [1993]TWL QB93506. Applications to further divide matrimonial property and to vary spousal maintenance. The husband had declared personal bankruptcy since the date of the original orders obtained under the Matrimonial Property Act and Divorce Act. HELD: 1)The husband's obligation to pay maintenance was reduced to $1 per month and the arrears accruing after the date of his assignment into bankruptcy were cancelled.  2)The wife's counsel requested that the court value and divide all of the matrimonial property equally notwithstanding the bankruptcy, because she might pursue a constructive trust claim for her 1/2 share as against the husband's trustee. 3)The court valued all of the matrimonial property and determined that 56% of this value should be paid to the wife, and only 44% to the husband, given amounts he had spent since the separation.  4)The court left unresolved the issue of which matrimonial assets might be exempt under the Bankruptcy Act and therefore available to the wife.","In November 1993 following a trial involving the divorce of the parties, including a corollary relief on such questions as spousal maintenance and division of matrimonial property, a judgment left the issue of the division of property until a later date.HELD: 1)The petitioner did pay $2,300 by way of maintenance out of the proceeds of certain barley he sold privately. The respondent claims this was in violation of my original order prohibiting the sale of any assets of the marriage without consent of the other party or the court. 2)The respondent filed a motion seeking a variation of the November maintenance order in light of his bankrupt financial situation and his inability to earn any income at this time. 3)The court granted the respondent wife 56% of the estimated asset value and 44% to the respondent husband 44%. When all of the assets were liquidated and it was determined what amount was actually available for division the court directed it to divide according to the values of the auction valuations. 4)Each side bore their own costs."
7_2009skqb475.txt,"The two accused entered a guilty plea to committing an assault causing bodily harm contrary to s. 267(b) of the Criminal Code. HELD: A fine plus a probation order with strict condition can accomplish the principles of sentencing. Each accused is fined $1,500 with a probation order for two years. Corrigendum received dated March 19, 2010 and added to fulltext.","The accused entered a guilty plea to committing an assault causing bodily harm contrary to s. 267(b) of the Criminal Code. After the plea was entered, the Crown asserted that each of the accused had a previous criminal record, but did not file the information contained in the pre-sentence reports; neither accused took any issue with the record. At the time of sentencing, the accused filed a lengthy written victim impact statement. HELD: The Court imposed a fine of $1,500 plus a probation order with strict conditions. The Court found that the nature of the offence was aggravating. The accused participated in gratuitous violence without any real explanation for doing so. The evidence established that the assault took place at a residence, albeit not that of the victim, and that there were two assailants beating the victim and taking his arm and leaving him with scars, which were not the only aggravating factors to contribute to the aggravating circumstances. The victim had been affected significantly by the assault. A suspended sentence with conditions, plus a firearm prohibition, was ordered."
7_1998canlii13743.txt,"Revenue Canada, which was owed $166,359.72 for goods and services tax for 1991-92 and $14,223.30 for 1991 unpaid personal income tax, and the Michaluks, who were owed $58,720.34 for a failed agreement and lease on their property in Manitoba, objected to the automatic discharge of the bankrupt. The bankrupt contended that s241 of the Income Tax Act prohibits disclosure of tax information concerning both the bankrupt's common law spouse and the company of which she was sole director and shareholder. The second preliminary issue raised was that portions of an affidavit were based upon information and belief as opposed to personal knowledge as required by Queen's Bench Rule 319 for a final matter. HELD: A conditional order of discharge issued requiring the bankrupt to pay $1,750 from any source to the trustee by monthly installments of $100 per month. Judgment interest would accrue on any arrears.  1)This discharge hearing related to Nick Morin. The relevance of the tardiness in remitting goods and services tax of his common law spouse's company was questionable. The information was confidential and disclosure would be improper for these proceedings. The principle and exemption contained in s295(5)(a) of the Excise tax Act would not allow disclosure of goods and services tax remittances in these proceedings. 2)None of the alleged facts raised pursuant to ss173(1)(a),(b),(d),(f) and (m) were proved. It was not proven as outlined in s173(1)(f) that the bankrupt put them through unnecessary expenses by a frivolous and vexatious defence to the action. The conclusion of the investigation conducted by the RCMP as a result of the superintendent's investigation order was that the evidence would not support a successful prosecution.","The bankrupt made an application for discharge pursuant to s. 170(1) of the Excise Tax Act. He contended that his former business had failed and that pressure from creditors had caused him to look at bankruptcy as the only alternative. The objecting creditor sought a conditional order of discharge requiring the bankrupt to pay $1,750.00 from any source to the trustee. The bankrupt submitted that this was a final matter and Rule 319 of the Queen's Bench Rules requires that affidavit evidence must be based upon personal knowledge. The court was not satisfied that any of these facts had been proved. For example, the bankrupt's common law spouse was opposed to the application. At the last minute, one of the creditors objected to the automatic discharge of the bankrupt.HELD: The application was granted. 1) The court found that the evidence did not support a successful prosecution. There was no order as to costs.  2) The bankrupt was in his early fifties and in good health. He was supported by his common law wife. 3) There was an investigation conducted by the R.C.M.P. as a result of the superintendent's investigation order.  4) The evidence would not have been proven in this case if the facts under s. 173(1)(a) had been proven. The applicant was not able to defend his claim because he had failed to file any evidence.  5) The relevance of the tardiness in remitting goods and services tax to the bankrupt in line with enforcement of the tax provisions as set out in s. 241(4)(a). The bankrupt's deliberate choice to use funds impressed with trust for his own purposes should not be encouraged. Counsel for the bankrupt was unable to remember the rule number other than he knew there was rule 319. 6) Judgment interest will accrue on any payment in arrears."
b_1992canlii4669.txt,"The plaintiffs original application was supported by her solicitor's affidavit. The Defence wanted the solicitor removed. The solicitor agreed to withdraw from the original application but wanted to appear on the Defence's interlocutory application to strike. Ordering the solicitor not to continue in the original or any related applications, that a lawyer has a duty not to give evidence in a matter in which he or she is involved as counsel except in merely formal or uncontroverted matters. Here the applications were so closely related that where it was improper to act in one, it was improper to act in the other.","Rule 10.11 of the Nova Scotia Barristers' Society Handbook and Code of Ethics, with the caveat that it was not meant to be an exhaustive set of rules for ethical and professional conduct deemed appropriate for lawyers, the intervenor was not permitted to continue as solicitor for the plaintiff. Allowing the application to strike the original application, which consisted of the originating notice interlocutory (inter partes) and an affidavit in support of the plaintiff's original application (which was to be heard at 11:00 a.m. on January 16), that a solicitor who makes affidavits not confined to procedural matters to argue cases on the basis of his own affidavits is permitted to be both witness and counsel. The intervenor's application to have the proceeding continue was also denied as costs were to be paid forthwith."
2_2009nspc21.txt,"The defendant farmer pled guilty to failing to take every precaution that was reasonable in the circumstances to ensure the health and safety of persons in the workplace, after a young employee drowned in a manure pit that was not properly secured due to a damaged barricade having been removed while a new one was on order. Defendant sentenced to fine of $25,000, from which the sum of $15,000 shall be paid to the Canadian Farmers' Disability Registry; defendant ordered to perform 160 hours of community service with respect to farm safety. The defendant was an individual and not a huge corporation, had been conscientious about safety issues prior to this incident and had endeavored to improve safety at his farm after the incident; the deceased had also failed in his responsibilities under the Act and was working with a significant blood alcohol content.","The defendant plead guilty to an offence under the Occupational Health and Safety Act that he failed to take every precaution that is reasonable in the circumstances to ensure the health and safety of persons at the workplace. The defendant's guilty plea relates to the fact that there was a manure pit on the farm that did not have a barrier. The facts establish that the defendant was out all night, drinking and had not slept. He had made substantial changes to the dairy farm since the tragedy of Boake's death, including building a new dairy barn. He was in no condition to operate equipment, which he needed to remove manure to the manure pit, and placed himself at risk. His failure was in not securing the pit which had its damaged barricade removed while a new one was on order, or not arranging for an alternative to use the pit, alternatives that did exist at the time."
8_2004skca99.txt,"This was an application for an order extending the time to apply for leave to appeal and for leave to appeal. Sections 13 and 14 of the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act govern the appeal. The applicant took no steps to appeal within the 21 day period due to an inadvertence of its lawyer. HELD: The appeal was dismissed. The plain and ordinary meaning of the words of s. 14(2) of the Act is that only the court appealed from has power to extend the time within which leave must be sought. Section 14(2) of the Act prevails over s. 9(6) of The Court of Appeal Act, 2000.","The Prospective Appellant sought an order extending the time to apply for leave to appeal and for appeal. Sections 13 and 14 of the Companies Creditors Arrangement Act govern the proposed appeal. The applicant took no steps to appeal within the twenty-one day period due to an inadvertence of its lawyer. The Bank applied for an order that the Court extend the time either under s. 13 of the Crediting Act which empowers the appeal court to grant leave for appeal on such terms as to security and in other respects as the judge or court so directs or under the Court of Appeal Act, 2000, S. 9(6) of that power to extend an appeal period. HELD: The application was dismissed with costs to the Court in the amount of $6,502, which was an appropriate provision for the provision of the Leave to Appeal Act."
2_2007skqb337.txt,"The appellant appeals his conviction of dangerous driving. The police did not see the appellant driving; they came across his minivan immersed in a slough in excess of 35 feet off the highway. Based on the tire tracks, the appellant was charged with dangerous driving. The trial judge concluded that the circumstantial evidence presented by the Crown was consistent with the appellant's guilt and the circumstantial evidence was inconsistent with any other rational conclusion. The appellant argues that without expert evidence called by the Crown to prove it was not possible for the appellant to have swerved in the manner he testified to create the same physical evidence shown in the photographs, the Crown has failed to prove that the appellant drove through the stop sign. In other words, the trial judge could not simply rely on his own experience to find that the appellant could not have been able to manoeuvre the minivan in the way he described. HELD: Because the Crown's evidence was not the only rational conclusion to be drawn by the trier of fact, the Crown has failed to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt. While no accident reconstructionist was available to check the accident scene after the incident, the Crown could have called an expert to testify whether the defence's theory could hypothetically be rational. However, no expert was called. The appeal is allowed and the conviction set aside.","The appellant appeals his conviction of dangerous driving. The learned trial judge concluded that the circumstantial evidence presented by the Crown was consistent with the appellant's guilt and the evidence was inconsistent with any other rational conclusion. The appeal is allowed, and the conviction is set aside. HELD: The appellant appeals. The Court found that the evidence that led the trial judge to conclude the appellant was travelling on Highway #11 was inconsistent inconsistent with other rational conclusions. It was the defence's theory at trial, and Fleury's unwavering statement after the accident that Fleury was travelling south on Highway 2 at the point of the 'T' intersection and swerved to miss a deer that had come onto the highway. The defence argued that, without expert evidence called by the crown to prove that it was not possible for Fleury to have swerved in such a manner to create the same physical evidence shown in the photographs, the Crown failed to prove the appellant drove through the stop sign. The appellant argued that the learned judge could not simply rely on his own experience to find that the appellant could not have been able to manoeuvre the minivan in the way he told Cst. Poiré. It seems unlikely that a minivan could make a 90° left turn at substantial speed without leaving any tire tracks across the two or three lanes it had to travel before leaving the pavement. The trial judge was not able to draw a rational conclusion from the evidence. The case of the expert who was called to testify was not proven beyond a reasonable doubt."
e_1998canlii13359.txt,"The accused, employed as doorman and relief bartender at the time of the altercation, was charged with assault causing bodily harm in which the complainant sustained significant injuries to his head and face. Three crown witnesses and five defence witnesses testified as to the altercation in the bar. HELD: The accused was found guilty. 1)The self-defence argument was not accepted. Neither s.34 or s.37 of the Criminal Code justified the assault. 2)The testimony of the Crown witnesses was accepted. The complainant was no threat to the accused in his inebriated state and the accused took advantage of the situation to administer a beating to him. The injuries were not consistent with the scenario described by the accused and the witnesses.","The accused was charged with an assault causing bodily harm. The facts surrounding the incident were described by three Crown witnesses, and by five defence witnesses including the accused. The accused admits that he threw a punch but says that he did not think that he caused the injuries. HELD: The facts were found to be consistent with the Crown's evidence that the accused was not favourably disposed toward the accused and that he was indeed instrumental in bringing about the events which resulted in his injuries. The Crown did not accept the accused's argument that he had been pushed by the penitentiary employee who had removed him from the bar and he had then proceeded to punch the accused on the back of the head and around the eye.  1)The accused admitted to throwing the punch but said that it was not that hard. He did not say that he struck the accused first.  2)The evidence of the Crown witnesses was accepted with the exception of the argument that the Court threw the punch that was not supported by the evidence. 3)The Court accepted the evidence that Baikie did indeed attempt to 'get at' the accused whilst being restrained by the Court. He may have thrown a punch at the accused or attempted to do so, but his efforts were not ineffectual. He was no threat to the accused, and that theaccused in fact took advantage of the situation to administer abeating to him."
2_2012nssc359.txt,"Rule 77.01 – Scope of Rule 77 This is a costs decision following litigation between the mother and father regarding apportionment of custody and access rights, quantification of child support and special expenses for the parties' children. The mother was the successful party and income was imputed by the court to the respondent.  Held, costs in the amount of $3,000 are awarded against the father. The father's position caused unnecessary time, effort and delay. The court referenced L. (N.D.) v. L. (M.S.) (2010) to summarize the principles and case law relevant to determining a cost award under Rule 77. Determining costs in a matrimonial manner is more complex given mixed outcomes and the burden of costs placed on families and children such that the court may need to exercise discretion and move away from a strict application on tariffs.","The parties litigated the apportionment of custody and access rights and the quantification of child support and special expenses for their two children. The respondent sought costs of $3,000 based on an application of a scale of Tariff A of the Costs and Fees Act. This proceeding required court time on two days and additional chambers time when the Court was required to resolve disagreements. The court assigned an additional one half day of Court time to this aspect of the case. Although the respondent's initiative in seeking to vary the existing order was not reasonable and responsible, the court found that the respondent had not persuaded the Court to reduce his child support obligation and the court imputed an income level to the respondent that she was prepared to accept prior to the commencement of the hearing ($25,000). Costs of $1,000 are assessed against the respondent. They are payable at rate of $150 per month until paid in full, beginning December 1, 2012."
1994canlii4106.txt,"The respondent owned a warehouse and leased it to the appellant's employer. During the course of her employment, a ceiling tile fell and struck the appellant. Both the respondent and the appellant's employer were employers under the Workers' Compensation Act. The appellant received benefits under the act. She commenced the action against the respondent with the consent of the Workers' Compensation Board. The trial judge held the action barred pursuant to the act. Dismissing the appeal, that s. 18 of the Act bars actions against any employer to which Part I of the Act applies. It is not necessary that the employer be the appellant's employer.","The appellant was employed by a commercial warehouse owned by the respondent and leased to MacKenzie. In October 1991, while in the course of her employment, she was struck by a tile which fell from the ceiling of the office ceiling. MacKenzies and the respondent were employers under the Workers' Compensation Act. The appellant commenced an action against the respondent for damages. The chambers application was made before a Supreme Court judge to determine whether the action was barred by s.18 of the Act. There was an agreed statement of facts and the issues were: '17(1) Where an accident happens to a worker in his course of his employment in such circumstances as entitle him or his dependants to action against some person other than his employer, the worker may claim such compensation or may bring such action within six months from the date of the accident.'  18) The ban is against actions of 'an employer', not his employer', and would appear to extend the ban to all employers to which Part I of the act applies."
e_1993canlii3183.txt,"The appellant pled guilty to perjury and was sentenced to two years imprisonment. He appealed the sentence as being excessive and too harsh. Allowing the appeal and varying the sentence to nine months, that while perjury is a very serious offence, the sentence exceeded the range imposed for offences of this nature.","The appellant was charged with giving false testimony with intent to mislead the court. He pled guilty to the charge and was sentenced to two years imprisonment. The Crown agreed and the sentence of nine months was manifestly excessive. The appellant, who was twenty-five years old, felt intimidated, that the evidence was not given for his own benefit and had no criminal record other than his own conviction for break, enter and theft. He appealed. Allowing the appeal and reducing the sentence to 9 months."
7_2006skpc48.txt,"The Crown asks that the accused youth be detained. The Crown concedes that there is no reason to detain the accused youth to ensure her attendance in court or to prevent further occurrences. The Crown asks that she be detained because the crime is so horrible, the case is so strong and the public in La Ronge are so disturbed and shocked by the occurrence that to release the youth would cause a loss of confidence in the administration of justice. HELD: The court does not keep a person in custody simply because they are accused of committing an offence. There must be a necessary and substantial reason to keep a person in custody before they have a trial. The accused youth will be released on strict conditions that will continue until her trial is complete.","A horrible event took place which has resulted in serious injury to a member of the La Ronge and area community. Several individuals have told the police that the accused youth is responsible for those injuries. The Crown conceded that there was no reason to detain the youth to ensure her attendance in court, or to prevent further offences on her part. The accused youth was charged with the offence under the meaning of The Youth Criminal Justice Act. HELD: The youth was released on strict conditions which will continue until her trial.  1)The public is aware that every person is presumed to be innocent until he or she is proven guilty at trial. There must be a necessary and substantial reason to keep a person in custody before they commit an offence. 2)The accused youth will not be danger if released or cause any other danger to the community 3)The Crown argued that the incident was the third, recent, serious offence to take place in our community and that fact has made the public anxious and concerned about crime and public safety. The offender in one of the incidents was apprehended, has pleaded guilty, and has been remanded a sentence. The RCMP have investigated the circumstances surrounding the injuries to the victim and the legal process is underway. There is no evidence at all that the youth will be danger, if released, or that her release will cause other danger. The public will recognize that the previous two matters were not related to the current charges or accused youth in any way. 4)If the youth is convicted at trial, the public is also aware that the appropriate sentence, according to law, will be imposed. The police have investigated and are still investigating. The court will not accept that the public demands that a person be confined in custody without good reason."
8_2001skca15.txt,"The Crown appealed a conditional sentence of 2 years less a day imposed after the respondent pled guilty to three break and enters of dwelling houses and theft and possession of stolen property in February and March as well as two breaches of undertakings in March and June 2000. HELD: The conditional provision was removed as time spent on electronic monitoring and post sentence efforts were considered. A conditional sentence was not available in the circumstances. The 38 year old had 49 prior convictions. The sentencing judge noted the accused's 3.5 years of sobriety, community support, education and technical trade training, and positive pre-sentence report but failed to consider the gravity of the offences, the need for deterrence, and above all, protection of the public. The respondent had no sooner finished parole than he began to commit these crimes.","The Crown appealed a conditional sentence of two years less one-day imposed on the respondent after he pled guilty to the following charges:On or about the 5th day of February 2000 at or near Saskatoon did break and enter a dwelling house and did commit the indictable offence of theft contrary to s 348(1)(b) of the Criminal Code;On or after the 4th day February 2000 in Saskatoon was at large on his undertaking given to a justice or a judge and being bound to comply with a condition thereof, to keep the peace and be of good behaviour fail without lawful excuse or comply with that condition, contrary to the terms of his undertaking. The sentencing judge noted the respondent’s alcohol problem, his three and one-half years of sobriety and that he did so well on probation he was released early at his own request in December 1999. The judge also considered a positive pre-sentence report and the fact the respondent spent time on remand. She was of the view community disposition was likely to be more effective than incarceration at rehabilitating the respondent. HELD: The Crown appeal was allowed. A conditional sentence was not available in these circumstances and the court noted the community support for the respondent, his education, his technical trade training and his being at large upon his undertaking as a justice/judge being bound by a judge being bound and being of the good behaviour, fail without a condition, failure without a lawful excuse to comply. The court noted that the respondent was 38 years old with 49 prior convictions and noted that his alcohol problem was three and a half years old and that his efforts to correct it had not resulted in a penitentiary sentence. It was not appropriate to impose a sentence of any less than one day on him."
2008skqb146.txt,"FIAT: The parties have three children, Jill born December 1981, Luke born May 1986 and Keegan born November 1989. The respondent states that he has paid child support pursuant to the court order of February 2000 but, when the children reached the age of majority, he reduced the amount of child support payable as the children became independent and moved out on their own. The petitioner takes issue with the respondent's unilateral reduction in child support and submits the children remained children within the meaning of the Divorce Act so long as they were attending university. The parties agree that given the age of the children there has been a change in circumstance sufficient to allow a review of the existing child support order. HELD: 1) The parties agree that Jill, age 26 is no longer a child of the marriage and that Luke, age 21 is not presently a child of the marriage but could once again become a child of the marriage if he attends university in the fall of 2008. The parties also agree Keegan is 18 and remains a child of the marriage by virtue of the fact that he is taking classes at the university. 2) While the respondent asks that he be allowed to pay child support directly to the children, there is nothing in the material filed which would indicate that the petitioner is not providing support to the child in an appropriate fashion. Further, the difficulties that would arise in respect to enforcement of the order if the child support payments were not made directly to the petitioner would mitigate against such a variation.","FIAT: On September 19, 2007, the respondent filed an application for an order varying child support orders. HELD: 1) The children are no longer children of the marriage within the meaning of the Divorce Act. The parties agree that given the age of the children, and the change in amount of Mr. Strueby’s income, that there has been a change in circumstances sufficient to allow a review of the existing child support order. 2) The application for variation requested that he be allowed to pay any maintenance payable for the said children directly to them. The respondent filed material indicating that the total arrears as of December 2007 were $9,440. 3) The respondent was ordered to pay $380 per month plus 33% of s. expenses. There was nothing in the material filed which would indicate that the mother was not providing support to the children in an appropriate fashion. 4) In the interim, any payments made shall be applied firstly towards the ongoing child support for Keegan and then towards the arrear for Luke."
7_2005skqb112.txt,"The issue is the amount of child support payable by the respondent. The respondent's income as reported in his income tax return for the past 3 years has been in the $70,000 range. However, he is also the sole shareholder of a corporation and the 50% owner of another corporation. The corporations have been very profitable and the retained earnings of both companies far exceed the amount of long term debt. HELD: 1) The respondent has deemed additional income of $50,000 and $27,200 from the two companies. 2) The imputed annual income of the respondent is $150,000. 3) Costs in the amount of $750 to the petitioner.","The issue was the amount of child maintenance payable by the respondent to the petitioner for the benefit of Brady Melvin, born January 1993. The amount of the respondent's income as reported in his income tax return for the years 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 was $71,501.00, $73,272.00 and $74,476.00. However, the respondent asserted that the indebtedness of the company was $1,600,000. The long term debt was deducted on its balance sheet before calculation of retained earnings. HELD: 1)The respondent was the sole shareholder of Canadian Well Servicing Ltd. and he owned 50% of the shares of the parent company. 2)The Court ordered that the respondent pay $800 per month as maintenance for the child on the basis of $72,800 for that period, the sum of $561 per month. Imputing the annual income of the petitioner to be $150,000 and that the retained earnings of both companies far exceeds the amount the long term debts represent shareholders loans.  3)An order was granted by the Court to require the respondent, pursuant to an order dated April 9, 1997, by requiring him to pay monthly child support for Brady Melvin for the period January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004 as maintenance. The respondent was ordered to pay $2,900 per month based upon the petitioner's annual income for the past four years. 4)Any expenses incurred by the petitioner with respect to hockey expenses shall be provided upon the return of such returns."
c_1999skqb60.txt,"The plaintiff lawyer commenced an action for fees and disbursements in the amount of $4,647.85. The proposed garnishee, SPMC, paid $337.46 into court and brought an application for an order pursuant to Rules 411 and 415(1) of the Queen's Bench Rules of Court. An order that any further amounts due and owing from SPMC to the company be paid into court to be disposed as directed by the court was granted with taxed costs to SPMC. Labour Standards filed notice of potential wage claims. The plaintiff obtained default judgment and made an ex parte application for payment out of the monies paid into court by SPMC. HELD: The applicant/plaintiff was to be paid all monies paid into court by SPMC with respect to the two files together with accrued interest less the amount previously paid out. The claim by the Minister of Labour was dismissed. Although the monies paid into court according to the decision in Polyco Window Manufacturing Ltd v. Prudential Assurance Co create a fund from which creditors must be paid, the claim by the Minister of Labour as of the date of the application was not a proven claim. No certificate had been issued and no judgment had been entered as of that date. A judgment had been filed by the plaintiff. He was the only party entitled to the monies.","The plaintiff commenced an action against the defendant, 626170 Saskatchewan Ltd. for fees and disbursements in the amount of $4,647.85. Tapp obtained garnishee summons issued prior to judgment against the said defendant and served it on Saskatchewan Property Management Corporation (SPMC). SPMC served it upon Tapp in March 1999 for an order pursuant to Rules 411 and 415(1) of the Queen's Bench Rules of Court that the sum of $2,521.68 and any further amounts due and owing from SPMC to the defendant be paid into court and disposed of as the court directed in full satisfaction of SPMC's obligations to the various parties who may have a claim against the money. In May 1999, Tapp made an ex parte application for payment out of the moneys which had been paid into Court by the Director of Labour Standards. The court, however, noted that no certificate of the Minister had been issued as of the date of this application. HELD: The application was dismissed as a party to a party claim.  1)Although the plaintiff was a practising lawyer in the Province of Saskatchewan, he was also a member of the Labour Standards Branch. 2)Tapp served all of the various interested parties with the notice of motion and the matter was heard on June 17, 1999 in Chambers. No one appeared on behalf of the other parties.  3)The Minister of Labour had not obtained judgment against any defendant company and there was no certificate on file. However, this was later obtained and filed with the local registrar at the judicial centre of Regina on July 12, 1999. Although the court agreed with the plaintiff that he was entitled to a judgment in respect of the third party claim, it dismissed the application as not being able to prove the Minister's claim. 4)It was not proven by the court that the Minister paid the money into court as he had not been entitled to it by the parties who had filed the claim. 5)The plaintiff was awarded costs of the application to be taxed."
d_1993canlii6612.txt,"On appeal from 106 SaskR 277. 47 year old respondent, former President and Chief Executive Officer of STC, had been awarded $165,000 (18 months) for wrongful dismissal. He had successively served three Crown Corporations over a period of ten years. On appeal held the award of damages was not inordinately high. The court however reduced the damages by $16,500 as it disagreed with the trial judge's determination regarding mitigation of damages. Appeal allowed to the extent of reducing the damages from $165,000 to $148,500.","This was an appeal from an assessment of damages in a wrongful dismissal action brought against Saskatchewan Transportation Company (STC). The former president and chief executive officer had been employed by the corporation for a salary of $110,000 and was entitled at common law to 18 months notice of termination having regard for the fact that he had been in the employ of the Crown in the right of the Province for about a decade. In consequence, the corporation obtained a judgment for damages against the corporation in the amount of $165,000. For the most part we can find no tenable basis for concluding that the award of damages was inordinately high. The severance terms of the corporation were arrived at with an eye to the former president's years of service and were to be adjusted accordingly. The trial judge rejected the trial judge's request to disregard all but the first year of Larsen's employment and to reduce his loss accordingly. HELD: Appeal allowed. 1)Costs to the extent of $16,000 were allowed on appeal. 2)The trial judge erred in his determination that the corporation broke the law by attributing the sum of $2,000 to the president for the purpose of mitigation. The fact that the appellant had worked for STC for less than a year at the time of his dismissal did not matter. It was simply an issue of shielding the appellant from liability for the loss he had caused. 3)The appellant's evidence did not show that he was under any obligation to mitigate his loss. There was no basis to attribute the bulk of the company's income to the appellant for the purposes of mitigation or for any other reason than the appellant having met his legal duty to mitigate but had not succeeded in reducing his losses."
9_2008skqb429.txt,"FIAT: The plaintiff seeks an order confirming the order nisi for judicial sale. HELD: Application dismissed. The Court will not set aside the order nisi for judicial sale on the basis that the application for leave was premature or that the statement of claim was not noted for default. However, the application for confirmation of the sale is premature as the property is to be listed for 6 months. There does not appear on the evidence to be a sale to be confirmed. The plaintiff is prepared to make an offer, but does not appear to have done so. The draft bill of costs submitted contains numerous items which occurred prior to the granting of leave and there is no order from the Court authorizing pre-leave costs, nor any evidence as to why the Court might consider pre-leave costs. On a renewed application for confirmation of judicial sale, it would be preferable to have evidence directly from the listing agent setting out the steps taken to market the property and detailing for the Court any offers received. There will be no costs awarded for this unsuccessful application.","The plaintiff seeks an order confirming the order nisi for judicial sale. HELD: The application for confirmation of the sale is premature as the property is to be listed for six months and on the basis that there is no sale to be confirmed based on the evidence filed. An appointment for hearing for the application by the proposed plaintiff for leave to commence action was granted and the hearing was set for April 21, 2008. The defendants did not appear on April 21/2008 and leave was granted in May 7, 2008 and the statement of claim has not been noted for default. An application for a stay of leave for leave was made in June 2008 but this was not in compliance with Queen's Bench rule 318 and 319. The application to set aside the order for nisi nisi (for judicial sale) is premature. There is limited evidence with respect to the value of the property and no evidence from the licensed realtor who was charged with the responsibility of listing the property as to the steps taken. The draft bill of costs submitted by counsel contains numerous items which occurred prior to the granting of leave. The defendant's position is that the home is overvalued and would likely sell in the $30,000 to $45,000 range, based on his knowledge of property being sold in the area. There will be no costs awarded for this unsuccessful application."
3_1998canlii14061.txt,"FIAT. SaskPower sought an order pursuant to Queen's Bench Rule 547 to require the plaintiffs to post security for costs on the ground Wind Power was a non-resident plaintiff with little or no assets in the province of Saskatchewan. HELD: The motion was dismissed.  1)Rule 547 is limited to cases where the plaintiff is a non-resident or where the defendant is given a statutory right to apply. Wind Power is an Alberta company extra-provincially registered in Saskatchewan. Dove Industries, a Saskatchewan company incorporated specifically to develop a pilot project in Saskatchewan which did not proceed, had shareholders in the province. 2)Given the amount of the claim against SaskPower in the amount of $6,400,000 and the significant claim for costs in excess of $50,000 the Court would have granted the security for costs but for the delay by SaskPower in bringing its application. The action was commenced in April 1996. Unexplained delay by a defendant in seeking security for costs will prevent the grant of an order. To make an award for security for costs at this stage would place a burden on the plaintiffs and possibly prevent the action from taking place at the scheduled time.  3)The plaintiff was awarded one set of costs in any event of the cause.","FIAT. The defendant sought an order pursuant to Queen's Bench Rule 547 requiring the plaintiffs to post security for its costs in this action on the ground that the plaintiff was a non-resident plaintiff with little or no assets in the province of Saskatchewan and Dove Industries, Inc. was incorporated specifically for a wind power demonstration project which did not proceed (and which is related to the subject matter of this action) andaccordingly had little or nothing assets. HELD: The motion was dismissed. The court has jurisdiction to direct security in the present circumstances and, if so, whether it should do so. 1)There are appropriate circumstances (Grotsky J. in Thole v. McKenna, supra) to deny the defendant an order that the plaintiffs post Security for costs at this stage of the action. In the present case, the amount of the claim against the plaintiff in the amountof $6,400,000 and the significant claim for costs which could be awarded to it in the event of successful defence was in excess of $55,000. With regard to Dove's claim, it is not necessarily fatal to the applicant that it did not move upon the close of pleadings but not even reasonably soon after some discussion of the matter that took place in September, 1996 without resolution. 2)The time to bring the application was at least soon after September 1996. The fact that it was not made until now would have left the plaintiffs with the distinct possibility that, ultimately, the court was not going to be asked by SaskPower to have them furnish security."
d_2009skqb517.txt,"Counsel for the plaintiffs brings two notices of motion seeking 1) the opportunity to cross-examine a deponent on her affidavit and 2) an order to compel one of defendants to supply pre-certification notices to all persons who may be eligible to participate in the class action that is contemplated. HELD: The motions are dismissed with no order as to costs.  1) One of defendants contends that 7 people alleged by the plaintiffs to be viable class members have already entered into a full and final settlement with the defendant. This defendant earlier sought to examine these individuals. The Justice of this action at that time did not allow the examination but instead made an order permitting the defendant to file affidavits on the issue. This is the source of the affidavit the plaintiff seeks cross-examination on. The order also allowed the plaintiffs to file reply affidavits, which they chose not to do. There is nothing in the original order that could be interpreted as saying that the plaintiffs could cross-examine on the affidavit. In the view of the Court, having chosen not to file reply affidavits pursuant to the original order, it is not reasonable for plaintiff's counsel to embark on a totally different approach several weeks after the deadline has passed. There is also some concern that the actual purpose of the proposed cross-examination would be more general and broad-ranging than a mere challenge to the defendant's assertion that the individuals at issue have already entered into full and final settlements with the defendant.  2) In its barest sense, plaintiffs' counsel requests that the defendant supply a plaintiff by way of sending pre-certification notices to its clients. The Court is aware of Lewis v. Shell, where an Ontario court ordered notice to potential class members. However, that case is not similar to this case. In the Lewis case, the Court was faced with concern over the defendant contacting individuals who might be potential class members for the purpose of obtaining early settlements. Moreover, the Ontario class actions legislation is less restrictive than Saskatchewan's. The section of the Class Action Act which may permit such an order refer to a 'class action,' not an 'action.' As this case is still in the pre-certification stage, it is not yet a class action within the meaning of the Act. Spavier v. Canada also indicates that pre-certification motions of this sort would rarely be successful in this jurisdiction.","HELD: The application was dismissed. The court found with respect to the following: 1) that the wording of s. 12 of The Class Actions Act creates a concern about the suspension of time limitations. The Court had previously ordered the defendant to produce a list of proposed class members who had been provided with a letter and related package by the defendant (relating to a test of their premises for contamination). The plaintiff did not seek to restrain the defendant from distributing the package nor did it seek to have the court direct Inco to change any portion of the material. The defendant did not provide any evidence that the plaintiffs, through their counsel, Red Seal or others, had settled with the defendant and therefore could not be viable parties to the action. 2) The Court dismissed the application for examination on the Moore affidavit. It was not necessary to go into the whole issue of examination of witnesses prior to certification as it was not in the nature of a class action and the Court's inherent jurisdiction should be limited to actions that have been certified as class action."
d_2010skca52.txt,"The appellant contests an order for $600.00 monthly spousal support given by a Chambers judge on an application to review a previous order which granted the respondent $300.00 monthly spousal support for a period of 1 year. The parties were married for 24 years following a 2-year period of cohabitation. They have 2 adult children, one of which is largely supported by the appellant. Both parties have some health problems. Originally, the appellant was ordered to pay the respondent $300.00 in monthly spousal support for a period of 1 year. Given the appellant's health difficulties and the fact that he was nearing retirement, the trial judge noted that the respondent would do well to become self-sufficient as soon as possible. The Chambers judge who reviewed the original order found that, during the year period the respondent was collecting spousal support, she had not engaged in any gainful employment. She had sold her house and used the proceeds to spend over 4 months living in Hawaii and Jamaica. She obtained probationary employment just after filing a notice of motion but lost the job before the hearing commenced. HELD: The appeal is allowed, the orders of the Chambers judge for spousal support and costs against the appellant are set aside. The Chambers judge imputed an income of $14,289 to the respondent on the basis that she was capable of working 30 hours per week at minimum wage. He did not indicate why he did not find her capable of full time employment. The Chambers judge made an error in calculating the income of the appellant. He also discounted the expenses borne by the appellant in relation the maintenance of their adult child, who was a full-time student. It was incumbent on the respondent to establish that she was unable to become self-sufficient. The evidence did not begin to establish that and, in fact, clearly showed that she made little effort to do so within the year allocated by the trial judge.","Division of matrimonial property and spousal maintenance. The parties separated in 2003 after 24 years of marriage following two years of cohabitation. At the time of the judgment, the respondent was 60 years old and the appellant was 53. They had two adult children, born in 1984 and 1989 respectively. The respondent was working and living with the appellant after the parties' separation and had been diagnosed with breast cancer and had surgery followed up by radiation. She also had shingles and an attack in the nature of stroke in 2006. The appellant was receiving social assistance in the amount of $14,000 annually. HELD: The appeal was allowed orally from the bench. 1) The evidence before Sandomirsky J. established that during the year following the one year order of Ottenbreit J. the respondent had not engaged in any gainful employment at all. She had sold her house and used the proceeds to spend over four months out of Canada, living in Hawaii part of the time and spending a month-long vacation in Jamaica. She paid for her adult children to visit her. Finally, on April 14, 2009, she commenced employment at Westfair Foods in a probationary position. This was after the year prior to the judgment had expired and only a few days prior to filing the application to review that order and to award to her substantial permanent spousousal support. Prior to the hearing of her application, she lost this position and said in her affidavits, filed in support of the application, that she was 'disabled and still receiving treatments' (that she was still receiving treatment, but was able to work 40 hours a week at minimum wage), that she still had the same medical issues and the couples' daughter was still living with him and going to university full time. The chambers judge discounted the relevance of the expenses of maintaining the respondent on the basis she was over 18, without determining whether she was a child of the marriage as a full time student. She did not indicate why he did not find her capable of full time employment. 2) The appellant's 2007 income was an error, as it failed to take into account employment expenses of $8,822 allowed by Canada Revenue Agency and expressly found by the chambers judge to be reasonable. The proper income for the appellant, still in the neighbourhood of $30,000, weighed against retroactive support of $600 per month. The order was permanent and no further review was fixed and costs against the appellant were set aside."
2_2002nssc26.txt,"The accused, charged with fraud, brought a motion to stay the proceedings on the basis that his Charter rights had been violated by the RCMP and the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy. The accused asked the court to reconsider its decision to quash a subpoena issued to the former Superintendent of Bankruptcy on the basis of testimony presented from other witnesses after the subpoena was quashed. Application dismissed; the accused had not met the onus on the balance of probabilities of establishing that the former Superintendent had relevant or material evidence to offer concerning the issues raised by the Charter motions. The subsequent testimony and documentation did not support the accused's allegations concerning the former Superintendent's motives or conduct.","The defendant, who was charged with three counts of fraud contrary to s. 380(1)(a) of the Criminal Code relating to his activities as president and principal shareholder of a bankrupt corporation, brought motions (the Charter Motions) seeking a stay of those charges on the basis that his rights under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms were violated by the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy and by the R.C.M.P. during investigations of his activities and of the administration of the bankrupt corporation. The defendant presented additional testimony from RCMP officers and evidence from Charles Walker, a senior official in the Halifax Officeof the OSB during the time that the Superintendent was being investigated. Application dismissed; there was no basis to compel the defendant's attendance and no subpoena was ordered."
d_2006nsca124.txt,"The accused successfully challenged the sufficiency of the grounds to issue a search warrant that was used to search her residence. Although the Information to Obtain was based on information from an anonymous, unproven source, the source's information was corroborated by independent information as to the accused's employment and residence. The only corroboration of the presence of a crime (a suspected marijuana grow operation) was from a FLIR test. The court found that the evidence did not rise above the level of suspicion, albeit strong suspicion. Corroboration of the employment and residence of the accused did not provide particular support for the informant's credibility; neither were results of the FLIR test and the presence of covered windows sufficient corroboration. The Crown appealed. Appeal allowed; new trial ordered. Although the trial judge articulated the proper test and began by analyzing whether the warrant could have been issued, the issue was later mistakenly transformed into whether he, himself, would have issued it. By weighing the probative evidence, the trial judge effectively substituted his views for those of the issuing justice and wrongly required the issuing justice to draw proper inferences as opposed to reasonable inferences.","The respondent challenged the validity of a search warrant, alleging that it was issued without sufficient information. The judge agreed and quashed the warrant. This rendered the search unlawful and thereby a presumptive breach of the respondent's Charter rights. Consequently the judge excluded the evidence obtained in the search. The Crown appealed. Allowing the appeal and ordering a new trial, that there was no breach of s.8 of the Charter and therefore the result would not necessarily have been the same. The court applied the standard of review which it did in R. v. Garofoli, [1990] S.C.R. 1421 for the purpose of reviewing the judge's decision. It held that the judge erred in law by failing to apply the test which he was required to apply in this case: whether there was enough evidence to establish a credibly based probability that an offence had been committed and that there would be evidence of it to be found in the place of search. In this case, the court substituted its view of the judge with that of the issuing judge."
b_2012skqb252.txt,"The tenants appealed a decision of a hearing officer under s. 72 of The Residential Tenancies Act. The hearing officer determined that the landlord's claim for non-payment of rent had been established and that an order for possession as warranted. The hearing officer directed that the order of possession would be deferred if the tenant paid the rent that was owing and future rent. The tenants argued that the hearing officer erred in not considering that the premises were infested with bed bugs and the tenants had been forced to incur personal expense to remedy the problem. They sought to adduce new evidence by affidavit on this point at the appeal. HELD: The Court declined to admit the affidavit evidence about bed bugs. However, the matter was remitted to the hearing officer for rehearing because the reasons provided by the hearing officer were deficient. The Court held that it was impossible to tell whether the hearing officer considered the tenants' evidence at the hearing, made findings of fact in that regard or whether equitable jurisdiction should be invoked in this situation. The reasons are inadequate to allow a meaningful review of the decision.","The tenants appeal the decision of the hearing officer under s. 72 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, c. R-22.0001 (the Act). The tenants sought to have the matter remitted back for re-hearing. HELD: The appeal is allowed. The decision is set aside and the matter Remitted back to the Hearing Officer for a re- rehearing. 1) The tenants do not dispute that rent is owing. They contend an infestation of bed bugs in the residential premises has made it uninhabitable and forced them to incur personal expense to address this problem. 2) The Court found the reasons inadequate to allow for meaningful review of the decision and for this matter the matter must be remitted to the hearing officers for rehearing. 3) The simple fact tenant's application is not formally before a hearing officer at the same time as landlord's application does not bar hearing officer from either considering the facts put forth by the tenant (provided they relate to the landlord's dispute) nor to give effect to the tenant's facts and arguments in rendering decision and formulating an appropriate order."
9_2006skca114.txt,"This is an application for leave to appeal, and leave being granted, an appeal by the Crown from a sentence imposed against a young offender pursuant to the Youth Criminal Justice Act. The respondent pled guilty to a charge of robbery, an offence contrary to s. 344(b) of the Criminal Code. The respondent was sentenced to 90 days secure custody, 45 days community supervision, 1 year probation and a 10 year firearms prohibition. HELD: Appeal allowed orally. The sentence is set aside and a sentence of 12 months closed custody, 6 months community supervision, 1 year probation and a 10 year firearms prohibition was imposed in addition to the 90 days closed custody already served at the time of the appeal.  1) It was clear that the primary concern of the sentencing judge was that, in the wake of the Supreme Court of Canada decision in R. v. B.W.P.; R. v. B.V.N. 2006 SCC 27, a custodial sentence might not be open to him at all. It is the Court's view that the sentencing judge's conclusion that the decision in B.W.P. virtually ruled out custodial sentences for young persons under the Youth Criminal Justice Act was unwarranted. The gist of that decision is that under the Act the principle of general deterrence is not a factor to be taken into account and cannot be used to justify a sentence harsher than the circumstances of the offender and the offence would warrant. Nor is specific deterrence to be considered as a separate factor. 2) It is the Court's view that a long custodial sentence is necessary to accomplish the task of bringing the seriousness of the offence to the respondent's attention, and provide meaningful consequences to reinforce societal values without negatively affecting the respondent's likelihood of rehabilitation.","This was an application for leave to appeal and, leave being granted, an appeal by the Crown from a sentence imposed against a young offender pursuant to the Youth Criminal Justice Act, S.C. 2002, c.1. The respondent pled guilty to a charge of robbery, an offence contrary to s. 344(b) of the Criminal Code. The sentence was set aside and a sentence of 12 months closed custody, 6 months community supervision, 1 year probation and a 10 year firearms prohibition was imposed in addition to the 90 days closed custody already served at the time of the appeal. HELD: Appeal allowed orally. 1) It is the view of this Court that the sentence imposed in this case was demonstrably unfit, taking into account the seriousness of the offence, the culpability of the respondent, the conduct of the offender and the principles of sentencing set out in the Act. The Court noted that in the wake of the Supreme Court decision in B.W.P. that a custodial sentence might not be open to him at all. The evidence supported the view that he could not be controlled in a non-custodial setting. 2) The Court was cognizant of the fact that the respondent had a lengthy record of previous offences and had been assessed as high risk to re-offend, his current situation and his need for psychological and substance abuse counseling and further education."
8_2001skca55.txt,"The Crown sought leave to appeal a conditional sentence of 9 months of time served plus 2 years less 1 day, including 3 months on electronic monitoring, and 2 years probation with a 10 year firearm prohibition on each charge to be served concurrently. The sentence was imposed for robbery with threats of violence contrary to s.348(1)(b) and s.334(2) of the Criminal Code which were committed in March 2000 while the accused was on probation. The appellant and co-accused were convicted of breaking and entering a private residence. The accused took $25 from the premises and held the 68 year old victim while the co-accused went to look for a knife after threatening to cut off his fingers. The following day the two accused used threats of violence while robbing a pharmacy and a witness testified the accused yelled to the co-accused to kill the victims. The co-accused who was convicted of assault received 7 years in prison for the robbery concurrent with 5 years for the B &amp; E. The 23 year old aboriginal who had a Grade 3 education had a prior record of 42 criminal convictions including eight violent or weapons related offences. HELD: Leave was granted. The appeal was allowed. The sentence of 4 years in prison on each charge to be served concurrently took into account time served on remand and electronic monitoring. The sentence was demonstrably unfit and fell outside the range of sentences previously imposed. The sentencing judge relied solely on the principle of rehabilitation, essentially ignoring the other sentencing principles including the level of gravity, the principle of deterrence, the need to denounce such acts, the sentence imposed on the co-accused, and the need to protect the public. A sentencing circle was inappropriate given the level of violence, his risk to re-offend, his consistent ignoring or refusal to follow court orders, and the fact that a penitentiary term was called for in such circumstances. He had violated various forms of community release orders including bail and probation 16 times. He had a history of drug and alcohol abuse and had not attended treatment.",The Crown sought leave to appeal the sentence imposed on the respondent after a sentencing circle. HELD: The Crown appeal was allowed. The sentence was demonstrably unfit and fell outside the range of sentences previously imposed by the Provincial Court. The respondent was 23 year old aboriginal who had 42 criminal convictions including eight violent or weapons related offences. He had violated various forms of community release orders including bail and probation orders some 16 times. He has a grade three education and did not have significant employment history. In his pre-sentence report he was considered high risk to reoffend. The Court of Appeal allowed the sentence and appealed.
3_2004skca49.txt,"Fulltext of judgment follows: [1] The appellant wife appeals the decision of the chambers judge varying the amount of child support and reducing the amount of arrears. She contends that the chambers judge erred in varying the order for maintenance and reducing the amount of arrears in the absence of evidence that there was a change in the conditions, means and needs of the respondent or the children as contemplated by s. 17(4) of the Divorce Act.[FOOTNOTE 1][2] The respondent contends that the amount of child support should be reduced by reason of his reduced income caused by his unemployment or reduced employment over the last four years. The appellant argues that the respondent has failed to satisfactorily explain his unemployment. There is evidence that his change in income is due to his own voluntary action and, as a result, he has failed to establish the threshold 'change in circumstances' which could result in a variation of the order. [3] The appeal is allowed and the decision of the chambers judge is set aside. There is evidence from which this Court can impute income to the respondent in the amount of $27,000, and the child support shall be varied to $510.00 per month as of February 1, 2004 in accordance with the Child Support Guidelines. The sum of $1,926.78 currently held by the Maintenance Enforcement Office shall be applied to the arrears. The respondent shall pay the sum of $200.00 per month on the arrears commencing April 1, 2004. [4] The appellant shall have her costs in the usual way.1R.S.C. 1985, c. 3 (2nd. Supp.).","HELD: The appeal was allowed and the decision of the chambers judge set aside. There was evidence from which the Court could impute income to the respondent in the amount of $27,000 and child support to be varied to $510 per month in accordance with the Child Support Guidelines. The sum of $1,926.78 currently held by the Maintenance Enforcement Office was to be applied to the arrears. The respondent was to pay $200 per month."
d_2005nssc322.txt,"The plaintiff, who was injured in a rear-end motor vehicle accident, applied for summary judgment and an interim payment of damages. Application for summary judgment granted; application for interim payment dismissed. There was no 'air of reality' to the defendant's defence; whether or not the plaintiff's brake lights were working, to strike her vehicle from behind on these facts meant that the defendant was either travelling too close or didn't have enough care and control of his vehicle. The plaintiff was making a significant claim for damages but she suffered from numerous previous injuries and conditions relating to her health; any damage assessment would depend largely upon credibility and the medical evidence at trial; to assess interim damages in this case would be a most difficult task and would only be a haphazard guess. The plaintiff's claim was also complicated by the fact that it could possibly be subject to the 'minor injury' cap on damages.","The plaintiff brought an application for summary judgment and interim payment under Civil Procedure Rule 13.01. The defendant argued that there was an arguable issue to be tried in that even if one accepted the plaintiff's evidence, there was the issue of contributory negligence, which would only be considered if the plaintiff rebutted the presumption that the collision occurred as a result of his negligence. Defence counsel argued that the plaintiff had not been able to establish the motor vehicle accident resulted in her suffering injuries. Application allowed; costs of the appeal and application before Judge Burke set aside. There was no 'air of reality' to the defence; if the brake lights did not work then the defendant drove straight into the rear of plaintiff's car. If the plaintiff stopped suddenly and as the defendant noted in his affidavit, the traffic light turned red, which was the defendant's vehicle was supposed to stop as well. The plaintiff's prior conditions would all contribute in significant way to her current health complaints; any amount of assessed damages would largely depend upon credibility and medical evidence at trial."
9_2012skpc49.txt,"The accused plead guilty to two counts of sexual assault. The victims were his granddaughters. The assaults were alleged to have occurred between 1983 and 1991. A sentencing hearing was held because there was significant disagreement on the facts. The Crown alleged three aggravating factors: 1) that the sexual assaults were numerous, 2) that the accused touched the victims directly on their skin and not just on their clothing and 3) that there was digital penetration by the accused on both victims. HELD: At a sentencing hearing, the Crown must prove aggravating factors beyond a reasonable doubt. The Court held that the two victims were sexually assaulted by the accused on numerous occasions over a period of a number of years. The Court was satisfied these sexual assaults were a common occurrence on every occasion that the accused was in the company of his granddaughters. The Court found that the accused touched the victims under their clothing on numerous occasions and that there were a couple of occasions that the accused digitally penetrated each victim. Finally, the Court concluded that the accused got bolder over time and took more liberties and chances with his victims.","HELD: The Court found that the accused was guilty of sexual assault contrary to s. 724(3)(e) of the Criminal Code. The Court accepted the accused's denial that there was no digital penetration. The evidence of the victims was sufficiently credible to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that there had been digital penetration of the victim’s vagina. From all of the evidence, the Court concluded that both victims were sexually assaulted by the accused on numerous occasions. It was not an isolated incident or even restricted to few occasions. The accused got bolder as time passed and took more liberties and chances with the victim. He rubbed the victims’ skin and rubbed his erect penis against them and kissed them hard on the mouth. When she had her first sexual experience, the accused said that he could not remember all the times. The victim testified that he was 10 or 11 years old and thought it was something to do with her vagina. As the victims got older, he went to feeling and rubbing the girls under their clothing and kissing them hard and then had direct skin on skin contact with the accused. The Crown suggested that these were more frequent occurrences and the accused took every chance he could to get more. HELD: There was insufficient evidence of digital penetration and therefore the Court was not entitled to rely on it. The facts found to be aggravating factors were: 1) the number of sexual assaults and the frequency of the assaults; 2) the accused touched the victims skin and not just over their clothing; 3) there was digital penetration; and 4) the victim could not recall any of the incidents beyond the barest detail."
e_2000skqb515.txt,"The Crown applied for an order forfeiting a vehicle pursuant to s.16(1) of the Controlled Drug and Substances Act. The registered owner applied for an order declaring her interest in the vehicle was not affected by any forfeiture order. The owner was passenger when 28.3 pounds of marijuana was discovered in the trunk of her Lincoln. She was found not guilty of trafficking and possession of marijuana for the purpose of trafficking. The driver was found guilty of possession for the purpose of trafficking. The trafficking charge against him was judicially stayed. HELD: An order of forfeiture issued pursuant to s.16(1). The application for relief was dismissed. 1)It was not necessary to address the Charter submissions with respect to s.19(3) because Crown counsel consented to the respondent's application being viewed as an application for relief from forfeiture under s.20. 2)It was impossible to conclude the respondent 'appeared innocent of any complicity' in the offence for which the driver was convicted and that she 'exercised all reasonable care to be satisfied' that the Lincoln was not likely to be used in the commission of the offence. 3)Section 11 of the Charter applies only when person has been charged with an offence. There was no charge against the respondent at this time. 4)The Act distinguishes between three types of persons who might own, or have an interest in, conveyance which is 'offence-related property': the interest of person convicted of the offence is forfeitable pursuant to s.16(1); if the person has been neither convicted nor charged and appears innocent of any complicity in the offence; someone charged with the offence which gave rise to the forfeiture application (as here). The forfeiture is not, except with respect to an offender, arbitrary. In view of the provisions available under the Act to obtain relief from forfeiture it cannot be concluded that empowering a court to grant an order of forfeiture constitutes cruel or unusual punishment.","The Crown has now applied pursuant to s. 16(1) of the Controlled Drug and Substances Act for an order forfeiting the Lincoln to Her Majesty in Right of Canada. The Crown alleges that the registered owner of the vehicle consented to Fair's submission being viewed as an application for relief from forfeiture. Fair was found guilty of trafficking in marihuana and possession of marijuana for the purpose of trafficking and Brooks was found not guilty on both counts. Fair has deposed that she loaded our luggage in to the Lincoln and then loaded it back into the car. The Lincoln was stopped by RCMP and the RCMP were contacted. At trial, Fair testified that she had socially used marijuana and that small amounts of personal use marijuana have been in the Lincoln. Brooks did not dispute the assertion by the Crown that the property was not likely to be used in connection with the designated substance offence. HELD: The Crown's application was dismissed.  1) Section 20(4) prescribes the powers of the Court upon the hearing of an application in s. 18(1), being Schedule to the Canada Act 1982. 2) The Court must first consider the gravity of the offence, the personal characteristics of the offender and the particular circumstances of the case in order to make an order of relief. It is not necessary to address the issues regarding the treatment of the Crown in this application. 3) There is no evidence adduced at trial to rebut the testimony of the Constable Baulkham. 4) It is impossible to conclude that Brooks 'appears innocent of any complicity' in the offence of which she was convicted and that she exercised all reasonable care to ensure that the vehicle was not used in the commission of that offence. 5) The test for determining whether sentence is disproportionately long is very properly stringent and demanding. A lesser test would tend to trivialise the Charter."
c_1995canlii4546.txt,"The applicant sought a declaration that the province was responsible for providing school buildings for delivery of the public school program and that when buildings must be leased, the province bore the associated costs. The applicant, which leased six school buildings from the Roman Catholic Church, submitted the respondent was required to reimburse the applicant for leasing costs. For the respondent, that the Education Act requires a request be made of the Minister in proper form and receive Governor in Council approval. Because the applicant failed to report to the Minister, the respondent was not required to pay the leasing costs. Where the Minister received a request in the proper form and where it was determined leases were necessary, the leasing costs would be the respondent's responsibility.","The applicant school board applied for a declaration that the Province of Nova Scotia is responsible to provide school buildings required for the delivery of a basic Public School Program to the students of the province. The school board had assumed leasing responsibilities for the six school buildings in 1983 and in 1983 entered various leasing arrangements for the buildings pursuant to the authority provided in s. 33(7)(d) of the Education Act. The Minister, having confirmed that the leases represented a long term asset for the benefit of the general populous, approved the use of capital funds on these facilities. The Cape Breton Board later sought reimbursement from the Minister for the payment of these lease expenses. Correspondence and reports between the board and the Department of Education over the last 10 years reflect the board's steadfast position that the province (the 'Province') is the province's primary financial responsibility, with the primary responsibility to the board being the primary financial driver. The lease costs are to the same extent as would be the cost of supplying the building free of costs."
d_2005nsca104.txt,"The son of unmarried parents, who had graduated from high school, was working part-time, living with his mother and had not made a final decision on a further course of study sustained a serious brain injury just a few months after his 19th birthday. He required extensive rehabilitation and would not regain his pre-accident physical and intellectual capacity. The mother successfully applied for a reinstatement of child support which had been discontinued by consent, pre-accident, when the son was residing with the father. The son, now 23 years old, was upgrading his high school marks at the time of the hearing and hoped to be admitted to a community college program. The father appealed. Appeal dismissed; the judge's decision to award support was not premised upon a finding that, pre-accident, the son had made a clear decision to pursue a further course of study but on the fact that the son intended to pursue his education and had not withdrawn from parental charge at the time of the accident. There was no evidence to support the allegation that the usual Guideline amount was 'inappropriate' in this case; the Act prohibited the consideration of public income assistance when fixing child support; given the uncertainty about the son's future, this was not an appropriate case for a time-limited order.","The father was to pay child support for his son pursuant to the Maintenance and Custody Act. The mother had been a dependant child for some time prior to the accident and was not able to work or further education. When the accident occurred, the son, who had attained the age of majority and not continuing with his studies or having firm plans to do so, was no longer a dependent child. The father appealed. Appeal dismissed; the judge clearly understood the child had not made firm plans on course of study but was taking hiatus before continuing his education; the child's future ability to 'withdraw from parental charge' was unknown. The judge did not err in finding that the son had not withdrawn and was unable to withdraw from his parent's charge."
6_1990canlii4137.txt,"This was an application under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms for an order declaring that the mandatory retirement of the two appellant university professors was invalid and denied the rights of the appellants as guaranteed under ss. 15(1) and (7) of the Charter, and an order for reinstatement and back pay. Dismissing the application, that (1) pursuant to s. 32 of the Charter, the Charter did not apply to these employees since the university was not a subordinate body of government, and was not being controlled by government, but was an independent institution; the fact that the university's governing statute provided that teaching staff were 'deemed to be persons employed in the public service of the Province' for the purposes of their pension plan did not constitute governmental control such as to warrant the application of the Charter; and (2) the proper forum for this application was the Human Rights Commission. The court also considered the retroactive effect of the Nova Scotia decision in Sniders v. Nova Scotia (Attorney General), which struck down the provision in the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act precluding anyone 65 years or over from making an age discrimination complaint. The court concluded that the Sniders decision did have a retroactive effect to the date when s. 15 of the Charter came into force.","This was an application under s. 15(1) and (2) of the Charter of Rights for an order declaring that the mandatory retirement of the applicants by the respondent was invalid and unconscionable, that they be reinstated as full time members of the respondent's faculty immediately and that the respondent pay all compensation due to them as employees since the date of their mandatory retirement plus interest and costs of this proceeding. This was an attempt to short-circuit the anticipated lengthy process under the Nova Scotia Human Rights Act by calling the Charter into play both to declare the right and to grant the specific remedy requested so that, if successful, the applicants could resume work at the beginning of the September 1990 university term.HELD: The application was granted on all fours with the exception of the application to the respondent. There was no evidence of governmental control that could be regarded as an exercise of government power sufficient to bring the respondent within the application of the charter. Certainly the private contract, here the Collective Agreement, is not subject to the Charter."
1991canlii4370.txt,"The defendant lawyer was retained for the purpose of obtaining and disbursing mortgage funds. The plaintiffs, creditors of the defendant's client, sued the defendant for negligent misrepresentation, breach of trust and breach of undertaking. The defendant initially received three irrevocable letters of direction for payment of amounts owing on a construction project. When the project got into financial difficulty the defendant advised his client to seek separate counsel to deal with the creditors - suppliers. At a creditors meeting the defendant advised the creditors' counsel of the initial three letters of direction. The project was considered viable by the creditors and continued, with the defendant obtaining postponements of the three letters of direction. Further creditors' meetings were held, a Creditors' Committee struck, and subsequent letters of direction sent to the defendant by the client and certain creditors. The defendant, in acknowledging a subsequent letter of direction, made no mention of the earlier three letters, nor any explanation of 'all of the proceeds'. One member of the Committee was aware of the initial irrevocable letters of direction. On what was to be the final mortgage draw, the defendant requested and was refused a postponement of the initial three letters. With his client's consent, the defendant disbursed the funds, to pay off the initial three creditors, a mechanics' lien referred in one of the subsequent letters of direction, his legal fees and the balance as per a letter of direction received from two of three members of the Creditors' Committee. Dismissing the action, that (1) there was no negligent misrepresentation as the creditors had continued to advance supplies, not on the basis of the defendant's letter of acknowledgement, but because they considered the project viable. Further, certain other plaintiffs were not aware of the letter, and could not have relied on it. Other plaintiffs did not supply after the letter and therefore did not rely on it. The Court noted that on a balance of probabilities, the defendant's disbursement did not cause the demise of the project. At the time of the disbursement the project was still viable and the plaintiffs made their own decision to cease supplying and to lien the project;  (2) there was no breach of trust as the defendant had no fiduciary duty and had at no time acted for the plaintiffs;  and  (3) there was no breach of undertaking as the undertaking must be considered in all the circumstances, including knowledge of the plaintiffs, the other letters and meetings. The Court concluded that the member of the Creditors' Committee who was aware of the initial irrevocable letters had a duty to advise the other members. The documentation was clear that legal fees would be deducted and the Committee was also aware of the direction to pay the mechanics' lien.","The plaintiff sought to have the defendant's solicitor disburse funds from mortgage draws, insurance claims and rentals by the project. The defendant had received a number of irrevocable letters of direction from the mortgage brokers, requiring him to pay the mortgage draws in a particular manner. When the first mortgagee to the project became dissatisfied with the handling of the project funds by one of the principals of and was withdrawing its support, the defendant suggested that he should retain separate legal counsel to deal with the second mortgagee problem and the creditor-suppliers dispute. The plaintiff disbursed funds to the first two mortgagee but requested that the third letter be given to the third. The third letter was never received. The plaintiffs sued the defendant for negligent misrepresentation and breach of trust alleging that he failed to follow the instructions of his clients. Dismissing the claim, that the defendant was a conscientious solicitor, always attempting to be in strict compliance with the terms of his retainer and endeavouring to avoid any apparent conflicts of interest, subject to any limitations which had been placed upon him through his writing. The court found that the plaintiff was not in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiffs and was not retained or purporting to act for them or on their behalf."
b_2018skqb197.txt,"HELD: The court sentenced the accused to a global sentence of 10 years for the manslaughter conviction. A one-year concurrent sentence was imposed for the conviction of prohibited possession of a firearm. The court gave him credit at the rate of 1:1.5 for his time on remand, resulting in a net global sentence of six years, five months to be served in a federal penitentiary. The Gladue report was considered and the background of the accused was assessed as an enormous mitigating factor. The court found that this was not an appropriate case to make an order pursuant to s. 743.6 of the Code both because of the multiple Gladue factors and because it had addressed the principles of denunciation and deterrence in the global sentence.","HELD: The Court sentenced the accused pursuant to s. 236(a) of the Criminal Code and his guilty plea to possession of a firearm while prohibited from doing so. The Court found the accused guilty of second degree murder but guilty of manslaughter. The accused had 55 previous convictions, 17 of which were for violent offences. Gordon had shown no remorse since he in drunken stupor shot his cousin in the head for no apparent reason. The evidence showed that there were numerous Gladue factors to be considered in the sentencing of the accused, including his extensive criminal record, his present and past criminal records, his ability to care for his children and his utterances about white men being rapists and pedophiles."
7_1996canlii7107.txt,"The respondent applied to reduce on-going maintenance from $600 per month for his two children and to reduce the accumulated arrears of approximately $14,600. The original corollary relief was made in 1989. An application for variation was dismissed in 1993 except that an order suspending the enforcement of the arrears during the times the respondent was unemployed was granted. The petitioner who had custody of the children and resided in Manitoba was employed. She requested that the matter be dealt with summarily on affidavit evidence and did not want a trial of the issue. HELD: The respondent was to pay $300 per month per child in the months when his gross earnings are $2,200 or greater and $150 per month per child when they are less. Arrears were reduced by $7,000. When he earned more than $2,200 per month he was to pay $200 per month on arrears in addition to the on-going child support obligation. The 1993 order was continued and it was further ordered that the respondent file quarterly a financial statement or cheque stubs evidencing his income with the maintenance enforcement office. 1)There was a significant reduction in the respondent's income since 1994, therefore there was a material change in circumstances. 2)The respondent had not provided specific information about the number of months he was in receipt of social assistance. It was clear, however, that his income during 1995 and 1996 did not allow him to meet his support obligations. Since his employment was uncertain a flexible order was appropriate.","The father applied to reduce the amount of on-going maintenance of $600 per month for his 2 daughters and to reduce arrears of approximately $14,600. HELD: The father was ordered to pay child support of $300 per month per child during months when his gross income was less than $2,200 and he was prohibited from receiving social assistance. Arrears were reduced by $7,000. He proposed that his support obligation be eliminated or at least reduced during his months of unemployment. Counsel for the father suggested that the obligation be reduced by one-half given the significant reduction in income experienced since 1994, there had been amaterial change in circumstances. The respondent was unemployed at the time of the judgment. An application for variation was dismissed in 1993 except that an order suspending enforcement of arrear during periods when the respondent is unemployed was granted. The father chose to file material in response to this application and wants the matter dealt with summarily on affidavit evidence and does not want a trial of the issue directed.HELD: A Child Support Order for $300 Per Month for the 2 daughters was granted and a $200 per month child support order was ordered on the basis that the father was paying child support in the months when he was not working and when he earned $1,200 or greater and his gross monthly earnings are less than$2,400. The obligation was reduced to 1 year from September 30, 1996 when the father commenced work as a pipe fitter. It was not immediately clear that his income during 1995 and 1996 did not allow him to meet his support obligations. The mother sought to have the obligation reduced by half as she was unable to meet her child support obligations during her months of unemployed. Counsel did suggest the father should reduce the obligation by one half as his employment was uncertain in his trade. Since his employment is unknown in the city a flexible order would be appropriate.The father's annual child support obligation since 1994 had been reduced by 1-half. He had received support in 1993 from the maintenance enforcement office, credits to the child support payment obligation, 1993 $3,172 and some public assistance in 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996 for a total of $11,611.00 paid and the amount required to be paid was $25,600 for the two daughters. The parties had joint custody of the 3 daughters."
4_2005skqb279.txt,"The plaintiff claims damages for injuries sustained when he was punched in the face and knocked unconscious by the defendant. Liability is admitted. The plaintiff applies for summary judgment pursuant to Rule 485 of the Queen's Bench Rules. The parties agree that damages should be assessed on the basis of the affidavit evidence. HELD: 1) The defendant pled guilty to a charge of assault causing bodily harm. He was sentenced to a fine of $1,500, placed on probation for 18 months and ordered to make restitution to the plaintiff for the cost of the dental work in the amount of $3,263.30. 2) The plaintiff suffered serious injuries and significant pain for a number of months after the assault. Extensive dental treatment was required and will be required at some point in the future. The plaintiff has minimal scarring. He is awarded general damages of $12,500. 3) The pleadings and the affidavit evidence do not support a substantial award for aggravated damages. However, the photographs graphically depict the extent to which his appearance was altered. Hurt feelings can reasonably be inferred from the fact that the plaintiff was rendered unconscious on the ground in a crowd of onlookers. These circumstances justify an award of aggravated damages in the sum of $2,000. 4) The plaintiff was awarded special damages in the amount of $1,911.70.","The plaintiff was standing with other patrons near the entrance to the pub when he was punched in the face and knocked unconscious by the defendant. Liability is admitted and the plaintiff now applies for summary judgment and an assessment of damages pursuant to Rule 485. The parties agree that damages should be assessed on the basis of the affidavit evidence filed and agree that the court would be in no better position to make an assessment following trial. HELD: The plaintiff shall have judgment against the defendant calculated as follows: general damages $12,500; aggravated damages $2,000; Aggravated damages $ 2,000. The plaintiff should be compensated for the difference between the full costs of required dental treatment less the amount reimbursed to him by way of the Provincial Court restitution order. This difference amounts to the sum of $1,911.70. The court declined to order any additional amount for potential future dental care and treatment."
e_2017skqb219.txt,"HELD: The court found the following with respect to each issue: 1) the grandmother was a person of sufficient interest regarding the children pursuant to s. 6 of The Children’s Law Act, 1997 and had standing to bring her application for custody; 2) it would be in the best interests of the children, now aged ten and nine years of age, to have their primary residence with their grandmother as she was their psychological parent. They had resided with their grandmother for most of their lives and it was important to maintain their relationships with their school and friends. The respondent would have regular weekly parenting time with the children; and 3) the evidence was inadequate to consider child support.","The third party in this matter is the maternal grandmother of the two children. The grandmother argues she is person of sufficient interest with respect to the children. Her position is that she and the father should have joint custody of the children but her home be the children's primary residence. She also seeks an order providing her with sole decision-making authority regarding medical care, counselling and education. The father argues he is not opposed to the grandmother having reasonable and liberal access.HELD: The issues before the court are whether the grandmother is a person with sufficient interest; if so, can the father be provided with parenting time with the children; if the grandmother can demonstrate a settled commitment to the child and an intention to be continuing and meaningful presence in the life of the child. The issues must be determined. 1) The grandmother was granted interim custody in March 2009. In August 2015 the Court of Appeal was dealing with a request by a third party for access with the parties' two boys. He sought an order that he have custody of them. 2) The father was granted supervised access to the boys for three weekends in a row with no access on the fourth weekend. 3) In January 2016 a pre-trial settlement conference was reconvened. Unfortunately no agreement could be reached regarding the ongoing parenting arrangement. The matter then proceeded to trial before the Court on January 26, 2017. It is clear there were concerns regarding the father's use of alcohol and drugs. He did not dispute the mother's claim for declaration of parentage, her claim for child support and her request that the children be designated beneficiaries of any life insurance, pension plan or health care plan he owned. 4) There was an interim order in place in January 2016 which ordered the father to pay child support for the children for the rest of their lives. In accordance with the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board letter, the grandmother's monthly payments will be adjusted every year to account for cost of living. In addition to the monthly pension funds the grandmother received a lump sum payment of $69,000. Finally, the father was to have access for the summer of 2017 in an approximately equal arrangement to those of the grandmother."
b_1999canlii12595.txt,"The applicant applies for amendment of the judgment dated March 19, 1999 as it relates to costs. At the end of trial, the applicant requested the Court to reserve on the matter of costs. The applicant intended to make a submission for award of solicitor and clients costs. Evidence was led at trial about insubstantial offers made directly between the parties. Further evidence now indicates that substantial offers were made through council although not led at trial. The applicant argues that solicitor and client costs of $70,000 should be awarded because the offer to settle of $250,000 is close to the total judgment award of $230,000 including party and party costs of $20,000. The respondent takes the position that the estate was willing to pay reasonable maintenance costs and the quantum of maintenance could have been summarily determined without the necessity of extensive discoveries and without a lengthy trial. The respondent submits the approach of a needs-based assessment was upheld by the judgment and is always the approach always taken on behalf of the estate. The respondent argues the real question is whether the parties were acting bona fide during their negotiations and the issue should not be determined on the basis of the closeness of the offers. HELD: Solicitor and Client Costs of $70,000 are not appropriate in this case. The applicant's conduct was not entirely pure. The applicant was made aware in a prior judgment that under The Dependants' Relief Act there is nothing to indicate that a person is entitled to part of an estate as a beneficiary but rather that a beneficiary is entitled to maintenance. In spite of this ruling the applicant continued to claim the whole of the estate and to pursue full disclosure of the financial worth of the estate. Solicitor and client costs are within the discretion of the court but such discretion is exercise only in rare and exceptional circumstances. The conduct of the respondent cannot be characterized as reprehensible, scandalous or outrageous. The respondent's unwillingness to make full financial disclosure did contribute to the increase of costs but is insufficient to merit full solicitor and client costs. The Court awards fixed costs to the applicant in the amount of $47,000 together with disbursements.","An application for amendment of the judgment. At the conclusion of trial, counsel requested that costs be reserved on the basis of Column IV of the Tariff of Costs. It was now clear that the applicant intended to make a submission for award of solicitor and client costs of approximately $70,000. The evidence at trial showed insubstantial offers made directly between the parties, although that evidence was not before the Court at trial. The applicant argued that the court needed to know the full extent of the estate so as to properly determine the applicant's entitlement to the estate. HELD: 1)The judgment was awarded to the applicant in lump sum. The respondent agreed to pay the applicant post-judgment interest at a rate of five percent per annum until March 19, 1999 in accordance with s.30 of the Executions Act.  2)The jurisprudence is clear that a court possesses an inherent power to vary its own order so that to carry out what was intended or even to reconsider or withdraw the decision so long as the order has not been perfected. Rule 184 of the Queen's Bench Rules allows the court to take into account offers of settlement that do not meet the requirements of the Rules in assessing appropriate costs. 3)The court was faced with two equally untenable positions in determining costs. If costs of the litigation were to be paid out of the award, the remainder may be insufficient to meet the applicant’s anticipated needs. This was not an appropriate case in which to order full solicitor-and-client costs."
7_1995canlii4030.txt,"After a series of pre-trial conferences, and the exchange of some correspondence between the parties lawyers, the husband took the position that the parties had reached a binding agreement as to the value of his pension. The wife disagreed and a trial of this issue was directed and determined in the husband's favour. The wife appealed. HELD: Appeal allowed.  1)Since the judgment of this Court in Childs v. Childs Estate, [1988] 1 W.W.R. 746, there is no doubt that a judge has the power, under Rule 7 of s. 44 of The Queen's Bench Act, R.S.S. 1978, c. Q-1, to enforce or set aside an agreement compromising an action by summary proceedings. The law as stated in that judgment applies as well to agreements or settlements reached during the course of pre-trial conferences. 2)Parties will not usually intend to settle selected issues on a piecemeal basis, but rather will reach tentative agreements on selected issues conditional on an overall settlement agreement being concluded. Such was the parties' intention in this case, and accordingly, there was no settlement contract for the judge in the court below to enforce.  3)This is not to say that parties cannot reach several separate independent, binding and enforceable agreements as part of an effort to reach an overall settlement of the matters in issue between them, but in order to do so, the intention of the parties to settle on a piecemeal or installment basis must be clear. Nothing in the evidence indicated such an intention in this case. 4)In cases of settlement agreements reached at a pre- trial conference, the application to enforce, or to set aside, should be made under Rule 7 of s. 44 of The Queen's Bench Act as was done in Childs and not under Rule 184A as was the developing practice.","This was an appeal from an order that determined after trial that the parties had reached a binding agreement as to the value of the appellant's pension plan during negotiations which took place during a series of pre-trial conferences. HELD: Appeal allowed from the bench with written reasons to follow. 1)The Court had previously upheld an order of this Court which had overturned the respondent's action for division of matrimonial property. 2)The court had then overturned the previous order which had resulted in the appellant being awarded the sum of $39,411.00 for her part of the pension plan. 3)The respondent's agreement to pay child support should be set aside and an application of the Pension Benefits Act to the Court of Appeal was made under s.44 of the Queen's Bench Rules."
6_2002nssc288.txt,"The plaintiff was injured in a motor vehicle accident in Quebec and commenced an action in Nova Scotia. The applicant applied to determine whether the plaintiff was barred from suing in Nova Scotia concerning the Quebec accident and to dismiss the action on the basis that Nova Scotia was a forum non conveniens. Application to dismiss the action dismissed; the forum conveniens is Nova Scotia. The plaintiff has the prima facie right to select the forum subject to the defendant's right to establish that the forum is non conveniens. In the absence of many facts about the circumstances surrounding the accident and the witnesses likely to be called by the defendant, Nova Scotia is the forum conveniens. The substantive law governing the proceeding will be the law of the place where the accident occurred and the governing procedural law will be the law of the place of the trial.","The defendant applied for directions as to procedure to govern the future course of conduct of trial in Nova Scotia on the basis that the plaintiff was barred from suing in the province of Quebec because of a motor vehicle accident in a different jurisdiction. The applicants did not really make any submissions of substance concerning forum non conveniens and at the same time the applicants have not provided a lot of information about the circumstances surrounding the accident such as whether any of the witnesses were seen by doctors or if so, where they are located. HELD: The application was granted with costs. The court has nothing before it as to who did what, who agreed to what, and who disagreed with what prior to hearing the application. In the absence of evidence of that kind, don't want to base a decision on what it might have been. The substantive law which governs will be the law of the place where the injury occurs in the Province of Quebec. Counsel are going to have to find some way of not only getting the law, but also interpretations of the law before the Court in this case."
c_1998canlii12344.txt,"At issue was whether the right of appeal to a board of revision against a municipal tax assessment was exercised properly having regard for s303(1) of the Rural Municipality Act and how and when notice was given. The company posted the notice of appeal by registered mail the day before the expiration of the 20 day appeal period. The notice arrived at the post office on a Friday, the day after the period expired and was picked up by the administrator the following Monday. The Appeals Committee refused to direct the board of revision to hear the appeal on the basis the company failed to give notice within the period prescribed by s303(1) and concluded that the board did not have the power to extend the time. HELD: The appeal was allowed. The board of revision was directed to hear and determine the assessment appeal. 1)The Committee did not err in deciding the prescribed time period for an appeal could not be extended.  2)The less formal expression 'to give notice to' as used in the Act is a less exacting term than 'to serve notice upon'. Wascana Energy exercised its right of appeal properly, or at least effectively, requiring the board of revision to entertain the appeal.","The question was whether the right of appeal to a board of revision against a municipal tax assessment was exercised properly, or at least effectively, having regard for the governing provisions of the statute and the fact of how and when notice of appeal was given. HELD: The appeal from the decision of the Committee was allowed with costs as usual. 1)The phrase'may give notice in writing' must be taken by implication to allow for notice to be given by means of registered mail. This is a less formal expression suggesting less exacting term and the preferable view is that person who posts notice in approved form by registered mail may be given notice in the most obvious way, which is to say by simply handing it to the administrator at the municipal office, the deadline for concluding the appeal. That would be absurd and the legislature cannot be taken to have thought that the proper exercise of the right conferred by the subsection should be made to depend on the posting of the appeal within the 20 day period, something that lies within the power of the person exercising the right, but upon the receipt of the notice by the administrator within the period, leaving ample time for the performance of these duties. 2)There was no evidence that the legislature intended that the word give as importing the necessity of receipt, just as the Committee did. However, it was found that the phrase may give notice to, as distinct from requiring them to serve notice upon, the administrator."
3_2002skca102.txt,"The accused applied for a stay of proceedings on the ground the Crown failed to provide adequate disclosure. In making disclosure, the Crown appended a copy of the respondent's criminal record to its affidavit. The defence then applied for a stay on the ground of perception of bias on the part of the Provincial Court judge because the respondent's criminal record was before her. The Crown appealed the order which prohibited the judge from continuing as trial judge in respect to the respondent's criminal charges of impaired driving, driving with blood alcohol levels exceeding .08, and dangerous driving. HELD: The appeal was allowed. The order for prohibition was quashed and the matter was remitted to the Provincial Court for trial. There is abundant authority that disclosure of an accused's criminal record to the court alone does not amount to an automatic disqualification of the court on the ground of apprehended bias, appearance of bias or other prejudice to the accused. The judgment in R. v. Peters is almost directly on point. The judge in this case said she had not read the record, she was not biased as a result of the information tendered at the pre-trial proceedings and the record was something she could put out of her mind as she did in all instances where she ruled evidence inadmissible. She was correct in these circumstances to dismiss the application for a stay and to decline to recluse herself.","This appeal is from an order made by a Queen's Bench judge prohibiting McMurtry P.C.J. from continuing as trial judge in respect of criminal charges against the respondent Herzberg. Herzberg was charged with impaired driving, driving with a blood-alcohol level exceeding.08, and dangerous driving. He moved for a stay of proceedings on the ground that the Crown had failed to provide adequate disclosure. In response, the Crown filed an affidavit to show that disclosure had been made. The application was dismissed. HELD: The appeal is allowed, the order for prohibition is quashed and the matter is remitted to the Provincial Court for trial. 1) There is no law which guarantees that inadvertent, inadmissible evidence will not be introduced. Even though the judge had not read the criminal record, she was aware of its existence as her decision dated December 17, 2001 indicated. The Crown did not have to disclose to the trial judge any indication of a criminal record.  2) It is the responsibility of the presiding judge to ensure a fair and public hearing. Although it is the Bicentennial holiday and the trial had commenced, there was no law that guarantees, as guaranteed by s. 11(d) of the Charter to inadvertent evidence of prior convictions, such as the defendant inadvertently disclosed that the accused had served notice to seek a greater penalty by reason of prior conviction. In this case the Crown was at fault. The accused applied for an order of prohibition. The order was granted. 3) The appeal was allowed in part. There is abundant authority that disclosure of an accused's criminal record to the court, whether composed of judge and jury or jury alone, does not amount to an automatic disqualification of the court on the grounds of apprehended bias, appearance of bias or other prejudice to the accused."
5_1998canlii13955.txt,"An application pursuant to s197 of the Automobile Accident Insurance Act for an order setting aside SGI's termination of the applicant's income replacement benefits. The applicant suffered soft tissue injuries to his cervical spine when his vehicle was struck from behind by an uninsured driver. He received a partial income replacement benefit from SGI on the basis he was not able to perform some but not all of his farm duties. HELD: 1)SGI was not entitled to terminate Sawkiw's benefits pursuant to s185(d), (e), (f) or (g). SGI's failure to make a suitable rehabilitation program available to Sawkiw prior to October 1/97 and its failure to reassess his level of income replacement benefits as at September 14 where significant factors contributing to his desperate circumstances. SGI was requiring Sawkiw to attend daily physiotherapy of 3 to 4 hours duration with approximately 2-1/2 hours of additional travel time. It is common knowledge that pain can be exhausting; that daily physiotherapy can be exhausting; that daily travel of 2-1/2 hours can be exhausting; that the physical demands of farming can be exhausting; and, that the mental demands of managing a farm and coordinating and organizing the work of others on a farm can be exhausting. It was far from clear how SGI expected Sawkiw to devote approximately 6 to7 hours per day to his treatment program and still have the mental and physical reserves to devote any time or energy to his farming oprations. He could only reasonably be expected to participate in daily physiotherapy if he was receiving a full, rather than a partial income replacement benefit. 2)The benefits were properly terminated pursuant to s129(1)(e) the first day of his full time employment in Alberta. However, from September 14/97 to the date of termination Sawkiw was entitled to be paid full income replacement benefit without adjustment for a partial return to work. Sawkiw was entitled to the difference and interest from the date such additional benefits should have been paid until the date of this judgment. 3)SGI was to arrange for an assessment by the rehabilitation centre forthwith. If it is found that as a result of the accident Sawkiw is not able to hold the employment he held at the time of the accident, SGI is encouraged to consider his condition as a relapse under s142(1)(a). Under the terms of this judgment the final income replacement benefit will be other than one made pursuant to s139 or 140. 4)Sawkiw was entitled to his solicitor and client costs respecting services rendered and disbursements incurred from the date of filing his notice of motion to the date this judgment is received. He was also entitled to his costs associated with preparing and filing his notice of motion set at $600 being the maximum amount payable under the Personal Injury Benefits Regulations.","The respondent SGI terminated the applicant's income replacement benefits pursuant to s.185 of the Automobile Accident Insurance Act. The applicant applied to the Court for an order setting aside the termination of benefits. HELD: The application was granted. The benefits were terminated effective October 23, 1997. The reason for the termination was that the applicant was not able to perform some but not all of his farm duties following the motor vehicle accident. The injury had resulted in the applicant returning to Saskatchewan and presumably to his pre-accident employment. There was no medical evidence as to his current condition but the applicant believed that he continued to have an ongoing disability. SGI provided that it was paying a partial income replacement benefit to the applicant based upon the information it had received from the applicant regarding his injuries. The application did not indicate which of the eight grounds SGI was relying on as the basis for terminating the benefits. The court found that the application was set aside as the applicant had not received notification from him that he was employed full time in Alberta."
6_2000skqb94.txt,"A jury determined the plaintiff was constructively dismissed from his employment as park superintendent in 1997 and awarded damages for failure to give reasonable notice. The defendant claimed the contract of employment was all inclusive; that the plaintiff exaggerated the amount of time he spent on the job in winter; that the reduced winter hours were not in lieu of overtime pay as he was a manager within the meaning of s.4(2) of the LSA; the doctrine of estoppel or waiver applied as he never claimed a right to holiday pay for 10 years and the employer relied on his not doing so; if the plaintiff is entitled to holiday pay he should only recover back to April 1990 as he is limited by the Limitation of Actions Act; it should not be based on wages plus truck allowance as wages as defined in the LSA does not include allowances for costs. The claim for unpaid holiday pay claimed from April 1988 to October 1997, based on his wages plus one-half his truck expense allowance, was reserved pending a decision by the Court of Appeal as to whether the Court of Queen's Bench has jurisdiction to determine the issue of entitlement to holiday pay. HELD: The claim was dismissed with costs.  1)The Court of Appeal held in Kolodziejski v. Auto Electric Service that the Queens' Bench has jurisdiction to entertain a civil action for non-payment of holiday pay. 2)The plaintiff may rely on s.30(1) of the LSA to establish he is entitled to holidays and on s.33 to establish he entitled to pay in lieu of taking holidays. The onus then shifts to the defendant to prove it complied with some exception in the LSA. Section 75 prevents an employee from waiving his or her entitlement. Whether the plaintiff asserted his right to holiday pay or not, he remained entitled to his annual holidays in accordance with the LSA. 3)The plaintiff can claim for any holiday pay in lieu of time off that he can establish he was entitled to from April 1990 to his termination date. Section 3(1)(f)of the LAA states that a cause of action for recovery of money under a contract, express or implied, must be commenced within 6 years of the date on which the cause arose. 4)The plaintiff clearly indicated that a portion of the truck allowance was made to avoid paying tax. As such it would be contrary to public policy for the Court to appear to endorse the plaintiff's actions by calculating his holiday pay on the basis of his wage and this portion of his truck allowance.  5)The defendant's position that the contract included a component of holiday pay each month was inconsistent with its position that the plaintiff took these days off as holidays during the year. The contract of employment did not include a component of holiday pay in lieu of time off.  6)Failure by the defendant to keep records for the purpose of inspection by the minister does not result in a reverse onus. The onus remains on the plaintiff to establish what holidays he did not take. 7)The plaintiff admitted to taking time away from his duties for personal time and for city business as mayor. The plaintiff was not there in his capacity as superintendent. Section 31(1)(b) indicates that an employee shall be permitted to take holidays in one uninterrupted period. The defendant allowed the plaintiff to take days off in any manner he chose. It was inconsistent that the plaintiff's failure to comply with the notice requirement meant for the benefit of the employer could be used by an employee to disclaim that his days off were holidays. 8)The plaintiff was clearly a manager within the meaning of LSA. Even if he were not a manager, he failed to prove, on a balance of probabilities that he worked overtime hours in excess of the statutory minimum in order to qualify for overtime. Any days off taken by the plaintiff could not be considered taken in lieu of overtime. The days he was away were holidays as defined in s.30 of the LSA. 9)He did not establish he did 3 weeks holidays.","The plaintiff sued for damages from the defendant alleging he was constructively wrongfully dismissed from his employment with the defendant. The plaintiff elected to have the determination of liability and the assessment of damages determined by a civil jury. The jury determined the plaintiff was constructedively dismissed and awarded the plaintiff damages. In addition to the claim for damages for failure to give reasonable notice of termination, the plaintiff asserted a claim against the defendant for unpaid holiday pay that he alleged was owing to him at the date of termination. The defendant argued that the plaintiff's hours of work were very flexible in the winter and that if the plaintiff did not take all of his 1990-1991 holidays by March 1992, the defendant would have been required to pay the plaintiff holiday pay in lieu of time off. HELD: The plaintiff was awarded judgment for $250,000.00.  1) It would be contrary to public policy for the Court of Appeal to appear to endorse the defendant's actions by calculating his holiday pay on the basis of his wage and this portion of his truck allowance. Any holiday pay owing to the plaintiff will be calculated only on the plaintiff’s wage. 2) The plaintiff can rely on the LSA definition of 'wages' to establish he is entitled to holiday pay. The LSA does not include an expense allowance. 3) In this case the plaintiff clearly indicated that the $250.00 portion of the truck allowance was made to avoid paying tax. 4) In Kolodziejski v. Auto Electric Service Ltd. (1999), 177 Sask. R. 197, the court held that the doctrine of estoppel or waiver should apply to prevent the plaintiff from claiming his entitlement to holidays. The doctrine was not applicable in this case. 5) The court reviewed the various types of awards made to an employee where he loses an employment benefit that also benefitted him personally. The Court would be substantially prejudiced if he was now allowed to assert that right. Whether the plaintiff claimed his right to holidays or holiday pay for 10 years and, that the defendant relied on it in this regard. 6) The trial of this matter was reconvened before myself for determination on the issue of the plaintiffs claim for unpaid holidays."
b_1995canlii6024.txt,"The accuseds were charged under ss.300 and 301 of the Code with (i)committing and (ii)publishing a defamatory libel against a police officer. They filed a plea of justification as permitted under s.611(1) of the Code. The Crown denied the truth of the plea pursuant to s.611(4) and the matter proceeded to trial. At the opening of their trial the accuseds applied for an order declaring ss.300 and 301 of the Criminal Code to be of no force and effect on the basis that they constituted an unreasonable limitation on their rights and freedoms guaranteed under ss.2, 7 and 11 of the Charter. The Crown admitted that ss.300 and 301 limited an individual's right to freedom of expression as provided by s.2 of the Charter but argued that this infringement was justified under s.1 of the Charter. HELD: Application allowed in part.  1)The onus of justifying the limitation of a right or freedom is on the party seeking to uphold the limitation and the standard of proof is by a preponderance of probability. 2)The standards against which a limit on a right or freedom guaranteed by the Charter can be shown to be reasonable and demonstrably justified are those underlying values and principles essential to a free and democratic society. While the right of free speech is important in our society, it is not unrestricted. 3)In order to justify an infringement of this right, it must be shown that: (i)the impugned legislative provision has an objective of pressing and substantial concern and (ii)there is a proportionality to the legislation in that: (a)the measures must be fair and not arbitrary, carefully designed to achieve the objective in question and rationally connected to the objective; (b)the means should impair freedom of expression as little as possible; (c)there must be a proportionality between the effects of the limiting legislation and the objective. S.300 of the Code meets these tests, and is therefore a reasonable limit on free speech and is valid. 4)Ss.611 and 612 of the Code, which permit a plea of justification do not create a reverse onus on the accused. They are procedural and merely serve to put the Crown on notice as to the accused's defence. The Crown must still prove that the alleged defamatory libel is knowingly false beyond a reasonable doubt. 5)S.301 of the Code makes it an offence to publish a defamatory libel whether or not the accused believes it to be true. S.301 is therefore not a reasonable limit and is invalid. ADDENDUM: The Court ordered that the agreed statement of facts set out at pp. 2 and 3 of the judgment not be published nor broadcast in any manner.","The applicants applied for relief under s. 300 of the Criminal Code alleging defamation and for a declaration that s. 301 of the Code constitutes an unreasonable limitation of one or more of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by s. 2(c) and (d) of the Charter. HELD: The application was granted.  1)The Court must consider all expression potentially restricted by the Code, not only the expressions involved.  2)The Criminal Code constitutes a reasonable limit in free and democratic society on the freedom of expression guaranteed by ss. (b) and s.301 of the code. The Court must not be diverted by the offensive content of the particular speech giving rise to the Charter challenge. 3)The principles of defamatory and constructive criticism of the criminal code are at issue. 4)Saskatchewan did not have a criminal record. The principles of constructive criticism were not breached. 5)The application for relief was dismissed. 6)Section 301 was not of sufficient importance to justify a violation of s.2(b). 7)The offences fell within s.300 as they were not of pressing and substantial concern to the Free and Democratic Society. 8)The court must consider the wide range of relatively trivial or innocuous material which fall within s.(d)of the Code. 9)The broadest possible limitation was imposed because the criminal Code was found to have little or no intention to publish."
b_1991canlii4497.txt,"A large diseased elm tree fell on a truck and injured the plaintiff driver. For some years prior to the accident, the defendant had operated a hazardous tree removal program. An inspector had examined the tree that fell. The inspector had no expertise relating to trees or their diseases, nor did his immediate superior. For the plaintiff, that there is a prima fade duty of care owed by the Department of Transportation to users of highway against reasonably foreseeable hazards, including the falling of trees onto the highway. Further, the defendant had a duty to use a reasonable standard of care in the operation of the hazardous tree removal program. The defendant was negligent in failing to train the inspector properly. The Court referred at length to the Supreme Court of Canada decision in Just v. British Columbia. The defendant's claim against the third parties (owners/occupiers of property on which tree stood) was dismissed.","A tree fell on a half ton truck on a public highway near Falmouth, Nova Scotia. The plaintiff was in good health and driving when the incident occurred. For the Attorney General, that the AG had not consent to the discontinuation of the action against the third party. Allowing the application, that in light of the extensive damage to the trees, and the absence of any evidence of the disease, the AG's decision not to discontinue the action was a sound one. Further, it was not necessary to bring the facts of the situation within those of previous situations in which a duty of care had been held to exist."
1987canlii2373.txt,Warrant issued to search a dwelling house for weapons allegedly used in an attempted armed robbery. The affidavit in support referred to an unknown informant. Judge applied the test that the justice of the peace `must be satisfied on reasonable grounds.' Substantial compliance found and warrant upheld.,"The respondent issued a search warrant to search a dwelling house for weapons allegedly used in an attempted armed robbery. The applicants sought an order quashing the warrant on the grounds that the search warrant was unlawfully and invalidly issued in excess of the jurisdiction of the Regina Police Force for the following reasons: (1) the respondent failed to disclose the existence of reasonable and probable grounds to believe the items sought to be seized would be found at the location which was to be the subject of the search; and (2) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the said Information was deficient in the following respects: the sole ground upon which the Information is based is hearsay information from a confidential source and no details are provided in support of the informant's opinion or conclusion that such information is reliable. HELD: The application was dismissed. 1) The role of the motions court judge hearing an application to quash search warrant is limited. He may not substitute his opinion as to the sufficiency of the evidence for that of the justice of the peace. Rather, the motions judge must do no more than determine two issues. First, whether or not there is evidence upon which a Justice of the Peace, acting judicially, could determine that a warrant should be issued; and secondly, whether there are reasonable grounds set out in the information such that would satisfy a reasonable man. If there are not such grounds shown the justice cannot be taken to have been satisfied on reasonable grounds."
d_2009skqb70.txt,"At issue is the amount of Income Replacement Benefits (IRB) payable to the appellant by SGI. The parties agree that the calculation of the IRB as provided by s. 117 of the Act is the annualized sum of $28,889.75. The appellant takes issue with SGI's reduction of the amount determined in accordance with s. 117 of the Act by calculating the appellant's net income in accordance with s. 135 to s. 138 of the Act. HELD: SGI has correctly calculated the appellant's IRB when it made the requisite deductions as set out in s. 137 to find the appellant's net income, and then reduced the net income to 90% to determine his IRB. It would be neither a rational nor fair interpretation to reduce a full-time earner's IRB by 90% and not the other types of earners. It would be neither a rational nor fair interpretation to deduct income tax, employment insurance premiums and Canada Pension contributions from only full-time earners. All earners are subject to these payments being deducted from their income but for their inability to earn an income because of an automobile accident. The further deductions to obtain the non- earner's IRB are in keeping with his earning reality.","In a judgment rendered April 2004 and cited as 2004 SKQB 156, the Court of Appeal referred the matter of the determination of the IRB for the respondent as non-earner on the basis of s. 117 of the Automobile Accident Insurance Act and s. 24 of The Personal Injury Benefits Regulations. The parties brought the matter back for further determination because SGI is paying the respondent an amount less than that. Counsel for Montgrand also appealed SGI's calculation of interest on monies owed to the respondent on a basis of pre-judgment interest. HELD: The respondent has correctly calculated Montgrand's IRB when it made the requisite deductions as set out in s. 137 to find the respondent's net income, and then reduced the net income to 90% to determine his IRB. SGI was correct in applying Regulation 102, which states that interest payable pursuant to Part VIII of the Act is to be calculated in accordance with the Prejudgment Interest Act.  1) The Court found SGI to be subservient to the other provisions of this Division. It would be neither a rational nor fair interpretation to reduce the income replacement benefit by 90% and not the other types of earners. The disability benefits pursuant to the Canada Pension Plan and CPP contributions from only full-time earners are subject to these payments being deducted from their income but for their inability to earn an income because of an automobile accident. The further deductions are in keeping with his earning reality. As stated in the previous Montgrand judgment, the provisions of ss. 135 138 do not apply to Montgrand as a non-income earner defined in the Act. 2) The respondent's claim for costs was dismissed. The Court held that SGI had correctly calculated the respondent’s IRB in the first 180 days, based on the court”s finding of facts” and that IRB calculated for the post 180 day period could not be less than the amounts Montgrand received pursuant to s. 116(1) of the legislation. It was not necessary for the Court to read down to comply with ss. 116 and 117.”  3) The portion of the statement that the respondent was paying $28,889.75 as a passenger in the accident did not conflict with the Act nor S. 117(3) nor the Regulations.  4) SGI”determined the amount of interest payable by the respondent for the 181st and subsequent days following an accident was calculated in such a fashion as to"
c_2007nsca4.txt,"The appellants applied for leave to amend their notice of appeal in regard to an order requiring them to post security for costs with respect to certain interlocutory applications. The application was opposed, inter alia, on the basis that the allegations which underlie the proposed amendment were not justiciable issues before the trial judge, were irrelevant on the application and were not ruled on by the trial judge. Application to amend the notice of appeal allowed; the amendment is reasonably necessary for the presentation of the appeal and will not occasion prejudice to the respondent. The respondent's opposition to the application fundamentally misconceived the role of a chambers judge who is asked to grant leave to amend a notice of appeal. It is not the role of a chambers judge to rule on the substantive merits of the arguments the appellants wish to make. The focus in this situation is on whether there is any prejudice to the respondent as a result of this issue being raised by amendment rather than in the original notice of appeal.","The appellants applied for leave to amend their notice of appeal. Leave was required because the notice was filed more than 20 days ago. The application was opposed by the respondent 2301072 Nova Scotia Limited and the intervenor. The appellants wished to add as a ground of appeal that the respondent, the plaintiff in the main action, is not alawful plaintiff and, therefore, not entitled to security for costs. The intervenor opposed the amendment on three grounds: that the allegations of champerty and maintenance that underlie the proposed amendment were not justiciable issues before a chambers judge, were irrelevant to the security for a costs application, were not ruled on by the chambers judge and should not be raised on appeal; and that the torts of existence and maintenance had been eliminated by the common law and were not reasonably necessary to the appellants' presentation of their appeal. HELD: Leave to amend the notice is granted on the condition that the appeal book be filed as previously ordered. Costs of this application will be costs in the cause of the appeal.  1)The Court's role as chambers judge is to rule on the merits of complex legal issues such as these. It is not the role of chambers judge in this Court to rule in the case of this appeal. The Court is asked to deal with complex legal points such as this one. 2)The proposed amendment will not interfere with the date set for filing the appeal or result in any wasted effort to address the appeal as originally framed. The proposed amendment relates to a matter that was raised before the judge of first instance and addressed, if not determined, by him by him. As well, their arguments in opposition to the amendment relate to the issues raised by it, those arguments are for a panel and not chambers judge to consider. The amendment should be granted but without limiting the responding parties from arguing these points before the panel."
b_2000skqb36.txt,"The accused, Cote, applied for remedy pursuant to s.24 of the Charter of Rights stating that he was denied the right to be tried on a fraud charge within a reasonable time. Twenty-two months passed between the laying of the charge and the trial date. Cote was not responsible for the delay and actively pursued a speedy trial. The delay was caused by the Crown's failure to provide timely disclosure. HELD: The charge was stayed. In applying the decision of the SCC in R. v. Morin, the court found that 22 months is an unreasonable and exceptional period of delay and is of sufficient length to warrant an inquiry. This case had no particular complexity above the norm for cases of this kind and did not require this delay. Cote did not directly or indirectly waive his s.11(b) right to be tried within a reasonable time. Cote was subject to substantial and sufficient prejudice by the delay. He suffered damage to his political career, embarrassment from media reports, unemployment, and economic hardship. The court balanced the individual's right to be tried within a reasonable time with society's interest in having the matter proceed to trial despite delay. Here the defence was not seeking to delay the trial and use the protective shield of s.11(b)as an offensive weapon.","The accused was committed to stand trial on one of the fraud charges and now applies for a remedy pursuant to s. 24 of the Charter of Rights. The application is based primarily on the accused's position that he has been denied the right to be tried on the fraud charge within a reasonable time. HELD: 1) The Court found that just over 22 months had passed since the charges were laid and that they had not yet been disclosed to the accused. 2) The accused has been extremely active politically. In 1996, he was elected chief of the Cote First Nation. The validity of the election was challenged and as result of these outstanding charges he was unable to participate in the 1998 election. 3) The length of delay has been substantial and sufficient to tilt the balance in favour of requiring a judicial stay. This is not a case of the defence steadfastly and unreasonably refusing to consent to Crown requested adjournments but quietly welcoming the resulting delay. In reality, this fundamental principle is often overlooked by the public and especially in highly publicized cases where a public figure is involved. Here, the accused has endured an unnecessary additional nine months of unemployment, economic hardship and other prejudice because the consequences of delay are not great. 4) There is a large volume of material that must be disclosed and must meet that obligation. In this case, the delay has not resulted in prejudice. The Court finds that the prejudice of the accused to the extent that it can be attributed to inaction by the Crown in failing to make timely disclosure. 5) The prejudice in the absence of sufficient disclosure is substantial. It is reasonable to expect the Crown to make some sort of disclosure within the next few months. However, it is not an indication that the entire trial will be completed within a month of the date of this application.  6) The application for a stay of the preliminary hearing is dismissed."
e_2012skca69.txt,"The applicant applied for judicial interim release under s. 20(b) of the Extradition Act and s. 679 of the Criminal Code. Romania sought extradition of the applicant so that he might serve a 3 year prison sentence imposed as a result of a conviction in Romania for criminally negligent homicide with respect to a motor vehicle collision where the accused, while impaired, hit a pedestrian and killed him. The applicant offered surety from the Romania community in Saskatchewan who did not appear to have known the accused for long and offered to put up his car as bond. The applicant had common law spouse in Saskatchewan but owned no real property. HELD: Although the Crown conceded that the applicant had met the relatively low threshold of showing that his application for leave to appeal his extradition order was not frivolous, the Court of Appeal declined to release the applicant. The Court of Appeal held that there is an elevated risk of flight in light of the fact that the applicant has exhausted all appeals in Romania and is facing a 3 year prison sentence. Canada's international obligations in extradition proceedings require the Court to look more severely at the risk of non-appearance than it would if the application was made solely under s. 679 in respect of criminal proceeding in Canada. The sureties offered by the applicant were not sufficient to ensure his attendance at Court. The application for judicial interim release was dismissed.","The applicant applies for judicial interim release pursuant to s. 20(b) of the Extradition Act so that he might serve a three-year prison sentence imposed as a result of his conviction, in that country, for criminally negligent homicide (an offence equivalent to that of manslaughter in Canada).  By this application, the applicant is a Roma and Romanian national who has resided in Canada since his arrival here exactly eight years ago.  Romania seeks Mr. Cretu's release from custody pending his trial in Romania.  The application before the Court of Queen's Bench on June 14, 2012, the judge heard a committal application in relation to the applicant and ordered him committed for extradition in respect of the offence of manslaughter. The judge also ordered him remain in custody pursuant to that order. The applicant has not appealed from the committal order nor has he met the onus on him under s. 679(3)(b) for his non-appearance. The issue here is whether the Minister has the means to obtain the requested release of the applicant. HELD: The application is dismissed.  1) The applicant's status as a Convention refugee and his failure to abide by a community-based sentence do not displace the well established requirement that a court considering an application for judicial inter alia release in an extradition proceeding must limit the assumption of risk of non- reappearance more severely than the Court would do in an application by an offender made directly under the Criminal Code.  2) There is no reason to look behind the gravamen of his persecution in Romania to the fact that he is an unacceptable flight-risk if released from detention. It is not appropriate to make such an inquiry on the limited materials available to the Court.  3) The Court of Appeal has concluded that the high threshold at which the applicant has met in regard to his application to be released from custody (i.e., that he has met this low threshold) must be limited by the imposition of a sentence that he will not be surrendered to the authorities of his home country.  4) There are no other circumstances which would require the Court to consider the third test (which is whether he will surrender himself into custody pending the Minister's decision on surrender)."
e_1994canlii4929.txt,"The Wife sought an interim distribution of matrimonial property and periodic maintenance for the 2 children of the marriage, aged 16 and 13. The Husband had not made an interim lump sum payment in the amount of $2,000.00 ordered in May and had undertaken to provide support monies after harvest. The Husband claimed that the value of the crop harvested was less than the farm expenses and resisted any change in the previous interim orders made. HELD: Application dismissed. The Court was not prepared to make the interim orders requested on the basis of the contradictory affidavits filed. A pre-trial was directed.","The applicant sought an interim distribution of matrimonial property and interim support for her two children and an order prohibiting the husband from contacting her and from going to her workplace. An interim order granted exclusive possession of the parties' farm home with the exception of the tool shed and other parts of the farm yard which the husband was required to enter for the purpose of farming. HELD: 1)The husband was ordered to pay monthly child support of $2,000.00 retroactive to July 1 and he was prohibited from disposing of farm machinery and the 1994 crop. 2)An interim order prohibiting him from contacting the wife had been granted in May of this year, in the absence of any evidence of his income. 3)The Husband had been earning money trucking and leasing out farm machinery for custom work on neighbouring farms. He had not yet paid most of the production costs. He was looking for work but did not expect to find any."
1999skqb17.txt,"The plaintiff alleged he was sexually assaulted and that Attorney General of Canada as employer of the administrator of the residential school was also responsible. The defendant alleged the First Nation was responsible for the administrator's conduct and applied to join the First Nation as a third party so that contribution or indemnity could be claimed. The applicant required leave under s.7 of the Contributory Negligence Act and Rule 107A(c) of the Rules of Court. HELD: Leave was granted to file a third party notice. 1)The low threshold for the establishment of a prima facie claim was met. 2)The delay would not be inordinate. The plaintiff's claim dated back to 1984. The parties were not ready for trial. No prejudice was established.  3)The third party's liability, if any, will have to be determined on a case by case basis. Each individual action brought by a former student at the residential school is different in nature. 4)The applicant was granted costs of the application against the plaintiff and the First Nation.","The plaintiff alleges that the applicant, the Attorney General of Canada, as the employer of Starr, was responsible for his conduct. The applicant applies to join the G[…] First Nation as a third party to the action brought by the plaintiff against it and Starr; so that it can claim contribution or indemnity from it if the applicant is found liable to the plaintiff. HELD: The application for leave under s.7 of the Contributory Negligence Act and Rule 107A(c) of the Rules of Court is granted. The application is taxed against the applicant and proposed third party. At this stage the pleadings and proposed pleadings must be taken at face value; there is no evidentiary requirement to establish they are correct. The low threshold for prejudice is reached at pre-trial. No additional delay, due to third party proceedings, must necessarily result in dismissal of the application. Nor has the plaintiff established any prejudice. There is no indication that the inherent delay in allowing thirdparty proceedings would result in the disappearance of any evidence, or that extra costs will be incurred in redoing steps already completed or that the process will become so cumbersome and complicated as to undermine the plaintiff's claim. The claim dates back to 1984. The plaintiff alleges he was sexually assaulted by William Starr (""Starr"") while he was student at and Starr was the administrator of residential school. The former student alleges the applicant hired an external contractor to do the work for Starr. The third party claims it will suffer prejudice if joined as a party. There are many claims arising from alleged abuse at the residential school which could result in applications to join it as a Third party. The first party suggests it will incur large costs in defending these actions. It suggests it would be cost efficient and simpler to have the applicant sue it in one action to determine its liability, if any, to the applicant. Unfortunately, this is not solution to the problem. Each individual action brings by former student is different in nature. It may cover a different time period and/or different employee so that the extent of the third party's involvement will vary from case to case. The second party's liability will have to be determined on a case by case basis."
d_1999skqb276.txt,"FIAT. The plaintiff applied for summary judgment in his claim for dismissal without just cause. The plaintiff was initially hired as body shop foreman but additionally acquired the title of assistant manager. When the body shop manager became ill that work load also fell to the plaintiff. It was during this period that the performance of the plaintiff, described by the defendant as serious misconduct, resulted in his termination. There was no issue of a lack of mitigation as the plaintiff accepted a job with another autobody shop but at a much lower rate of pay. The action was brought pursuant to the simplified procedure outlined in Part 40 of the Rules of Court. HELD: Damages were to be calculated by the parties for the 7 month notice period based on his income and value of benefits over the previous year, less the 6 weeks pay received, and less wages and benefits received from his new employment. Jurisdiction was reserved to hear further evidence should the parties not reach agreement. 1)By using the words 'shall grant judgment unless', Rule 488 requires the presiding judge to grant judgment except in the circumstances outlined in s.488(a)and(b). The test is not whether there is contradictory evidence in the affidavits but whether despite the contradictory evidence the issue(s) can be decided in the absence of cross-examination and it would be otherwise unjust to do so. If the court can assume the defendant's evidence is true and still grant summary judgment there is no genuine need for a trial. 2)As noted in numerous decisions, whether an employer is justified in summarily dismissing an employee is ultimately a question of fact. The plaintiff was not terminated because of poor job performance in performing his contractual duties as foreman and manager but because of his alleged poor performance in doing the job normally assigned to two persons. The employer has the right to expect that employees will not disparage their immediate supervisors or other employees in the course of their employment and certainly not to clients or customers of the employer. The type of conduct here would not justify dismissal the first time it came to the employer's attention if the employee had been guilty of such conduct while performing only his own job function. 'Griping' is not uncommon in the workplace. The case law seems uniform that one or more warnings to an employee must be given before it can be said such activity 'fractures the employment relationship'. The category of misconduct can be said to change from poor attitude to disobedience or insubordination where dismissal results after one or more warnings. 3)The plaintiff was entitled to 7 months notice to reflect the fact that junior management positions are fewer in number and the considerable wage difference between management and non- management positions.  4)The plaintiff was entitled to taxable costs.","FIAT. The plaintiff applied for summary judgment in his claim for dismissal without just cause brought pursuant to the simplified procedure outlined in Part Forty of the Rules of Court. The defendant opposed the application and requested a summary trial. HELD: The plaintiff was not terminated because of poor job performance in performing his contractual duties as bodyshop foreman and assistant manager but because of his alleged poor performance in doing the job normally assigned to two persons. The Court accepted the defendant's evidence wherever it conflicted with that of the plaintiff and concluded the plaintiff is entitled to judgment.  1) The defendant bears the burden of demonstrating there is a genuine need for trial. 2) In this case the plaintiff was able to obtain employment within approximately 2 and one-half months of the end of the notice period given to him by the employer at wage considerably below what he had earned with the defendant. 3) Taking all of the factors into consideration, the Court considered this is an appropriate notice period to which it was entitled. 4) The plaintiff's damages are to be calculated in the manner set out in the foregoing."
4_2008skqb174.txt,"Accused pleaded guilty at opening of trial to one count of distributing child pornography in the form of written works. The accused was active on a pedophile website and posted 11 stories describing sexual activity between men and infants and pre-teen girls. HELD: Accused received 15 months imprisonment followed by 3 years of probation with addition orders including providing DNA samples and being added to the Sex Offender Registry. The Court accepted that the internet has led to the accelerated proliferation of child pornography, making it an increasing social problem. The social harm of such material is borne almost exclusively by infants and children, the most defenceless members of society. For this reason, denunciation and deterrence are the dominant sentencing principles. The defence submitted that the writings do not actually harm children in their making and, therefore, should not be subject to the same denunciation as pornographic images. The Court rejected this argument because it cannot be assumed that the writings do not stimulate the demand for images and since not all pedophiles are voyeurs only some will act on their desires and anything that stimulates this desire places children at risk in the real world. Aggravating factors in this case were 1) the fact that the accused extolled pedophilia and wrote hard core child pornography and encouraged others to the same. 2) The accused was a high profile contributor to the web site and he remains unrepentant Ã» he does not believe there is anything wrong with writing these stories and only stopped because the law requires it. A conditional sentence would not represent sufficient denunciation or deterrence. Mitigating factors in this case included a lack of criminal record, the guilty plea and the fact that the accused is looking after his elderly mother.","The defendant pled guilty at the opening of trial to one count of distributing child pornography contrary to s. 163.1(3) of the Criminal Code. The defendant had 1,200 postings on his website, which included 11 stories that included 11 described sexual activity between adults and either infants or preteen girls. The moderator of the website encouraged stories, and the defendant encouraged others to submit stories. He stated he was more of a voyeur than actively sexual with girls. Although he claimed he did not know such stories were unlawful in Canada, he had been a frequent contributor to a website that promoted stories about sexual encounters with pre-teen girls, which on the scale of written child pornography places it in the upper half of the scale.HELD: The defendant was sentenced to 15 months imprisonment to be followed by a term of probation of 3 years as well as the additional sentences. The Court took into account the mitigating factors referred to by the defence, such as the fact that the defendant had no criminal record, did plead guilty, had no previous record, and was now serving the useful social purpose of looking after his ailing mother who lives on an isolated acreage and who will also be punished if he is incarcerated."
6_2010skqb264.txt,Defendants brought an application for an order setting a date for the plaintiffs' application for certification of the class action. The plaintiffs had failed to meet the litigation schedule by failing to deliver their written arguments and authorities and had not applied for an extension. HELD: The order of the Court established a timeline for the plaintiffs certification application and set a hearing date.,"FIAT BALL J. July 26, 2010 The defendants apply for an order setting a date for the hearing of the plaintiffs' application for certifying this action as a class action pursuant to The Class Actions Act as am. HELD: Although the time lines established by the Court have expired, there will be an order granting leave to the plaintiffs to serve and file an application extending the times within which steps may be taken leading up to the Hearing of the plaintiff's certification motion. If such an application is made, it shall be made returnable on September 23, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. or such other date as may be designated by the court on application by the plaintiffs. If the plaintiffs fail to serve or file the application by August 27, 2010, the defendants may apply for a appropriate remedy."
e_2010skca8.txt,"Fulltext of judgment follows: Following the conviction of the respondent on a charge of trafficking in morphine contrary to section 5(1) of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, the prosecutor asked the sentencing judge to make a DNA order under section 487.051(3) of the Criminal Code. The judge declined to do so for the reason this was the respondent's first drug offence and she had no record of violence. With respect, we are of the opinion the judge erred in declining to make the order. The error lay in the judge's failure to have regard for the offender's record as a wholeÃ¹she has 53 prior convictionsÃ¹and to have adequate regard for the objectives of section 487.051 as identified in R. v. Briggs 2001 CanLII 24113 (ON C.A.), (2001), 45 C.R. (5th) 99 (Ont. C.A.). In light of the nature of the respondent's current offence, her lengthy record, her history of recidivism, and the relatively modest impact an order would have on her privacy and security interests, we are satisfied an order should have been made. Accordingly, and in the best interests of the administration of justice, there will be an order under section 487.051(3) in Form 5.04 for the taking of bodily samples from the respondent. If any directions should be required in relation to the execution of the order, the parties are given leave to informally apply for such directions through the Registrar's office.","Following the conviction of the respondent on a charge of trafficking in morphine contrary to s. 5(1) of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, the prosecutor asked the sentencing judge to make a DNA order under s. 487.051(3) under the Criminal Code. The judge declined to do so for the reason this was the respondent's first drug offence and she had no record of violence. With respect to the issue of the order, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion the judge erred in declining to make the order. The error lay in the judge's failure to have regard for the offender's record as a whole (she has 53 prior convictions) and to have adequate regard for her objectives of s.487.05(3). In light of the nature of the offender, her current offence, her lengthy record, her history of recidivism, and the relatively modest impact an order would have on her privacy and security interests, we are satisfied an order should have been made. Accordingly, and in the best interests of the administration of justice, there will be an order under ss.487(3)(a) in Form 5.04 for the taking of bodily samples from the respondent."
2_2005skpc38.txt,"The accused is charged with driving without due care and attention contrary to s. 44(1) of the Highway Traffic Act. A pedestrian was crossing a road adjacent to a parking lot and, while walking directly in front of a stopped vehicle, was struck by the vehicle when it rolled forward. HELD: The accused is not guilty. The court accepted the accused's evidence that his vehicle rolled forward only a short distance of not more than one foot and not at a fast or accelerated speed and that the pedestrian was crossing outside of the cross walk and that the accused applied his brakes as soon as he saw the pedestrian. The accused did exercise due diligence.","The accused was charged with driving without due care and attention contrary to s. 44(1) of the Highway Traffic Act. The accused was on duty in a marked police car when the accused's vehicle rolled forward and hit the complainant. The complainant crossed the street outside of the cross-walk and called for other police officers. At trial, the Crown called three witnesses who testified that the accused was travelling very fast (over 25 km/h). The defence suggested the accused had an oblique motive for thinking that the complainant was being insolent and returning to set him straight. The Crown argued the accused should have simply continued driving. The officer testified that as he was leaving Super Store, he passed in front of a stopped vehicle, which turned out to be the defendant's vehicle. The defence then called four witnesses: Michael Rostotski, Corporal Pelzer, Constable Kinellson and Mr. Tyndall. They accepted that the vehicle only moved less than one foot, and didn't accelerate or move forward quickly. They also accepted that neither seat belt nor a raised voice in speaking to the officer was locked upon striking the accused. They both testified that their position in the vehicle was near the intersection where the collision occurred. The issue to be determined was whether the Crown has proved that the driving by the accused constituted carelessness applying an objective test in assessing carelessness and whether it has then shown on a balance of probabilities that it exercised due diligence in the context of the circumstances encountered. The actions of the accused which could be considered careless are, firstly, the speed at which the vehicle rolled past the complainant, and secondly, the manner in which it crossed the road. The second part of the Sault Ste. Marie test is whether the accused exercised due care or attention. HELD: The accused is guilty of the charge. 1) The officer's evidence that he did not touch the accelerator, not touching the brake, and rolled forward striking the complainant less than a short distance. This is insufficient to conclude that the actual speed of the vehicle is at most one foot. Given the nature of this confrontation and as an accident, it could not be concluded that the officer's vehicle moved too fast. The standard to be applied was set out by the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench in R. v. Kozun 1997 CanLII 11313. The Court reviewed four areas where there was inconsistency and conflict in the evidence given by the Crown and defence witnesses.  2) The accused said he thought the defendant was going too fast when"
b_2008nspc5.txt,"The accused was charged with driving a motor vehicle while his licence was revoked when he was found operating an all terrain vehicle (ATV) on a highway. Accused found not guilty; the accused could not have obtained a licence to drive an ATV on the highway because it is a prohibited vehicle. Before one can be found guilty of this offence, it must be proven that they were driving a motor vehicle of a type or class for which they could have been properly licenced to drive on a highway.","The accused was observed by police driving his all terrain vehicle (ATV) along the community of Woods Harbour, Nova Scotia, at the time his driver's license was revoked. At trial, the defence argued that the words'motor vehicle' in s. 287(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act does not include an ATV and even if those words did, the accused should be found not guilty because his license revocation is irrelevant since he could never have been licensed to drive anATV on the highway. The Crown argued that because the accused was driving a motor vehicle on highway and his 'driver's license' was revoked he is guilty of the offence of driving a prohibited vehicle on a highway under s. 11, but that is not the charge before the Court."
7_2011skpc143.txt,"The plaintiff filed a number of duplicate claims on behalf of a number of individuals. The issue was whether the claims should be issued. HELD: Section 7(1) of The Small Claims Act provides that a Provincial Court Judge acts as a gatekeeper to insure that claims comply with the Act before they are issued. In this role, the Provincial Court judge is exercising a quasi judicial function. Counsel for the plaintiff has clearly indicated that the claim is a test case. The plaintiff seeks declaratory relief. A substantial amount of the claim involves an allegation of breach of contract, but neither the plaintiff nor the proposed defendants were signatories to the contract. Accordingly, they would not be entitled to the benefit of the agreement. As virtually all of the potential issues raised by these claims are declaratory in nature, they are outside the jurisdiction of the Provincial Court. Any litigation over these issues must be done in the Court of Queen's Bench.","The defendant had submitted 18 claims for issuing by the defendant pursuant to the Small Claims Act. The defendant had refused to issue a summons and was in the process of remitting the matter to another Provincial Court Judge, who was out of the province at the time of this writing. The issues were important issues to the potential plaintiff, and may well be worth litigating, but that litigation, in my view, must be done in the Court of Queen’s Bench, by either issuing a new claim, or by way of enforcement proceedings of the claim upon which the agreement referenced above was made. The court reviewed the letter and found it was terse and complained about the speed at which the matter was being considered. It did not stipulate with any precision what damages have been suffered, nor establish any sort of quantum for those damages. HELD: The defendant was directed to provide notice to the other parties and provide notice of the date and times of his submission to the court. There was no obligation on the defendant to attend a pre-hearing conference."
2_1999canlii12669.txt,"The respondent seeks an order for interim spousal support. The parties were married in January 1991 with three children and ceased to cohabit in December of 1996. The respondent is 52 years old and unemployed. In the past, he has been diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic and suffering from a personality disorder but is currently, according to his physician, of sound mind. He qualifies since 1987 for a disability pension under CPP by reason of his mental disability which provides for a basic income of $580 plus GTS rebate for a total of $630 per month. The petitioner lives on a section of farm land which was brought into the marriage by the respondent, of which one quarter contains the matrimonial home. The petitioner and children live in that home. The petitioner is 39 years old and is also unemployed because she is an incomplete quadriplegic. The farm land is rented out from which the petitioner receives rental income. The petitioner enjoys an income of $3,400 per month while the respondent receives $630 per month. HELD: The petitioner is ordered to pay the respondent the annual sum of $6,000 paid in monthly installments of $500. There is no juridical reason why the petitioner should obtain the total revenue owned by the respondent particularly when he brought the land into the marriage. In fact, fairness and equity would suggest just the opposite, at least in respect to one half of the revenue. Accordingly, the Court makes an order on the basis of the respondent's ownership of the land rather than order payment of spousal support.","FIAT The Respondent sought an order for interim spousal support. HELD: The Court ordered that the petitioner pay the respondent the annual sum of $6,000. The respondent was 52 years of age and unemployed. He had been diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic and suffering from a personality disorder. His disability pension from the Canada Pension Plan was $580. He qualified for disability pension by reason of his mental disability. He lived with a friend and bought food for both of them. There was another source of income and property which the respondent had rented out. The petitioner disclosed much the same property but values it at $293,874. The difference in value relates to certain farmland which the petitioner brought into the marriage. The combination of the respondent's total pension income, including G.S.T. credit, along with the whole of the rental, would provide a monthly income of $630. The reasonable needs of the children would be met even if some of the landlord's payment was paid to the respondent. The Court noted that the respondent does not require financial assistance. He does not manage his finances well and reference was made to the fact that he spends over 25% of his present income on the luxuries of eating out, entertainment, recreation and cigarettes. The actual amount is $210 which is 33 per cent of his current income."
6_2016skqb16.txt,"Wills and Estates – Executors – RemovalCivil Procedure – Wills and Estates – Applications – Requirements The applicant applied for an order that the respondents renounce their right to probate the last will of the deceased testator, Anne Reiter, or in the alternative, for an order that they be terminated as executors of her estate. The testator died in January 2015 and application for probate had not yet been made. The deceased’s will had bequeathed all her property to her husband, Michael Reiter, who died in October 2015. The respondents were named executors of his estate. A simultaneous application had been brought by the same applicant to remove the respondents as executors of his estate (see: 2016 SKQB 15). The applicant had failed to serve the respondents with notice of this application or the alternate executor and beneficiaries named in the will. In addition, the applicant had misunderstood that she could rely upon evidence filed in another action that was also before the court in this application. HELD: The application was adjourned. The applicant was instructed to serve notice of the application and the adjournment on the alternate executor and the named beneficiaries. As the applicant had not understood that evidence from another action could not be considered by the court on this application, the applicant was also required to file further affidavit evidence. She was instructed to serve the material on the respondents, the alternate executor and the beneficiaries.","The applicant applies for an order that the respondents, Yvonne Powell and Yvette McLachlan, renounce their right to probate the last will and testament of the deceased or, in the alternative, for an ordered that they be terminated as executors of the estate. HELD: 1) The respondents have failed to provide any evidence to the court as to the status or assets of the Estate of Anne Reiter. In order to determine the issues, it is necessary for the court to be provided with information asto the status of the administration of the assets. 2) The applicant has failed to serve all those persons who are interested in this application which include the alternate executor under the will and all the named beneficiaries."
b_1996canlii5028.txt,"Guardian was the general liability insurer for Kellogg. Royal was the primary insurer as holder of Kellogg's blanket fleet coverage. Kellogg's employee was involved in a motor vehicle accident while on company business but was driving his wife's vehicle at the time of the accident. Royal denied coverage and refused to defend on the basis of an exclusionary provision regarding the use of substitute automobiles. It was held at trial that Royal was not obligated to participate. HELD: 1)The case law reveals some inconsistencies with respect to the relationship between the duty to defend and the coverage provided by the policy. Where the policy clearly does not provide coverage, the insurer had no duty to defend. Where a policy only provides coverage for some allegations the insurer is only obligated to defend those allegations which may trigger the obligation to indemnify. When a policy is ambiguous some courts have adopted Thames and have stated the mere possibility that the policy may provide coverage is sufficient to oblige the insurer to defend. 2)Section 209 provides no guidelines as to the scope of the inquiry the judge may engage in. The chamber judge did not define the scope of his inquiry and stated that the standard suggestion that Guardian must raise an arguable point was 'off target'. To determine whether an insurer has the obligation to defend a chamber judge must examine the coverage provided by the policy. The judge made no finding of ambiguity in the exclusionary provision. He simply determined the Honda was not covered by the Royal policy and did not decide the issue of indemnity. 3)The affidavit evidence indicated that the parties lived in the same premises thus that argument was without merit. CONCURRING JUDGMENT: The appeal was dismissed for different reasons.  1)There has been an acceptance of the general concept that the duty to defend is broader than the duty to indemnify. To order an insurer to defend a chamber judge need be less sure the policy provides coverage than would be the case for an actual determination of liability under the policy. 2)There was a factual element which could not be determined on this application such as whether a partially deflated tire constitutes a breakdown within the meaning of the policy and whether the automobile the employee was driving was owned by someone living in the same dwelling. 3)The question centered around the words used in clause 5 of the policy and who it referred to. There were inconsistencies in terminology. The policy should not be interpreted as though the restriction it contains on what automobile can be used as a temporary substitute should be ignored.","This appeal arises from an application for directions pursuant to s. 209 of the Saskatchewan Insurance Act to determine whether Royal has an obligation to defend. The appellant was the primary insurer as the holder of the blanket fleet coverage of the respondent. The respondent denied coverage and refused to defend the action in the name and on behalf of the insured on the basis of an exclusionary provision in its policy. The chambers judge found that Royal was not obligated to defend because the Honda involved was not insured by Royal. The issue to be resolved on appeal is whether the chambers judge erred in his application of the principles of contract interpretation when he decided that the Honda was not a 'temporary substitute automobile' within the terms of the policy. HELD: 1) The duty to defend arises only when the pleadings disclose a claim which, if proven at trial, would be covered by provisions in the insurance policy. When the provisions of a policy are 'ambiguous' or 'clearly' do not provide coverage for that which is alleged, the insurer has a duty of defend. 2) The Court must determine whether this vehicle was insured under the Royal policy before it can determine whether the insurer is under a duty to defended. 3) A more restricted inquiry on s.209(1) application could reduce the potential for inconsistent judgments created by the operation ss. 209(3) and 209(4) of the Act. However, this does not preclude a judge sitting at the outset from interpreting policy and determining whether the policy would provide coverage. In Nichols, the Court of Appeal found that the mere possibility that the policy may provide coverage is sufficient to oblige the insurer to defend; however, the limits of the judge's final decision may indicate that the judge may place a value on the contract and determine whether coverage is provided."
c_2016skqb374.txt,"HELD: The appeal as to the convictions and the sentences imposed was dismissed. The court found with respect to each issue that the trial judge had not erred: 1) the defence had acknowledged the appellant had used force and that his spouse had not consented to it. Therefore the appellant could not argue on appeal that the trial judge failed to take implied consent into account. The trial judge was entitled to accept the spouse’s testimony as she was not cross-examined at trial. There was nothing in the transcript that showed the trial judge took a zero tolerance approach. The trial judge found that defence of de minimis was not open to the appellant based on her finding that the application of force by the appellant was more than trifling. On appeal, the court could not substitute its view of the evidence from that of the trial judge; 2) the trial judge found that the appellant intentionally drove in a manner that he knew created a danger for others and to frighten his spouse. She was entitled to conclude the appellant’s conduct was a marked departure from that expected of reasonably prudent driver. The evidence was reasonably capable of supporting her decision; and 3) the appellant had not identified how the trial judge had erred on any of the grounds an appeal court could consider. It was not open to it to intervene only because it would have weighed sentencing factors differently from the trial judge.","HELD: The appeal was granted. The conviction was dismissed. The court found that the appellant had not made a marked departure from the standard of care that a reasonably prudent driver would have been subjected to in the circumstances of the offence and that the trial judge was entitled to deference in her assessment of the evidence. There was no evidence upon which a trier of fact, properly instructed or otherwise instructed could have reasonably reached the verdict. The evidence was nonetheless reasonably capable of supporting the decision. The appeal from the dangerous driving conviction must also be dismissed. It was open to the court to accept or reject the evidence of the complainant."
9_2008skpc147.txt,"The parties entered into a handwritten agreement with regard to the feeding and maintenance of 100 cows. The plaintiff was to provide labour and the necessary equipment to feed and maintain the cows for $.50 per cow per day. The defendant was to provide the feed and medicine. At paragraph 6 the contract stipulated that the plaintiff was to receive a bonus for each live calf that he got to pasture. The amount of the bonus was left blank. The plaintiff sues the defendant, claiming a bonus for the 2004-2005 year and the 2005-2006 year. HELD: The claim is dismissed. In law an agreement to come to an agreement is not enforceable. This is especially true where an essential term regarding remuneration has not been agreed to. The parties agreed that they would settle on the bonus amount later on but they never did. The plaintiff believes he is still entitled to a bonus. The Court cannot make the agreement for the parties.","The parties signed a handwritten agreement on the 20th day of October 2004. The entire document reads as follows: [1] This contract is to cover feeding and maintenance of about one hundred and one cows to be boarded at the plaintiff's farm. The plaintiff did not have a copy of the final invoice given to Dobson and he, Dobson, did not bring copy of that bill with him to Court. Because the parties are so close in their estimate as to the amount of final cost of the feed, find that the defendant owes the plaintiff $850 and judgment shall issue accordingly. [2] In law an agreement to come to an agreement is always essential. This case was not one where the parties thought they had reached an essential result. In this case, the plaintiff was not entitled to any of the benefits he was entitled to."
4_2004nsfc6.txt,"The Agency brought an application for a finding that the Respondent had abused a child, for the purposes of entering his name in the Child Abuse Register. The complainant described certain incidents that amounted to sexual assault when she was under the age of 16. The Respondent had previously been acquitted of charges based on the same allegations in criminal court. The Respondent has abused a child within the meaning of the Act. Although the standard of proof is on the balance of probabilities, it is elevated with the seriousness of the allegations and their implications. However, it is considerably less than proof beyond a reasonable doubt.","The applicant brought an application for a finding that the respondent had abused a child pursuant to s. 62(a) or (c) of the Children and Family Services Act. The applicant was fifteen years old at the time of the alleged sexual contact. She stayed over at the respondent's residence with the intention of sleeping in the bedroom with him and his dog. The parties lived alone and had very serious allegations, the Court found. The evidence of the child that she was sexually assaulted by the respondent has more probability of truth than disbelief. The Court adopted the position held in Bater v. Halifax, 44 R.F.L. (2d) 437 that a person under 16 years of age is subject to a charge of child abuse within the meaning of s.59 of the Child Abuse Register."
e_2014skqb23.txt,"Civil Procedure Injunction HELD: The first portion of the statement of claim is an attempt by the plaintiff to have the Court take jurisdiction over a matter that is already before the Saskatchewan Human Rights Tribunal. While the court has jurisdiction to hear human rights complaints, the jurisdiction only arises after the tribunal process has been exhausted. Since the tribunal procedure has not been completed, the portions of the statement of claim dealing with the human rights complaint are stayed on the basis that the underlying issues may only be heard by the court upon application of the Chief Commissioner of the Saskatchewan Human Rights Code pursuant to s. 29.6 of the Code. With respect to the claim that the defendant breached The Animal Protection Act, the essence of the claim is to seek damages against the plaintiff for the loss of the service dog. That portion of the claim must be struck because the plaintiffs cannot circumvent the provisions of The Animal Protection Act, 1999 nor eliminate the defendant’s right to be charged and tried in Provincial Court through the expediency of claiming a declaration in a civil suit. The third claim is that the defendant was negligent in allowing other children to interact with the service dog will not be struck because, assuming the facts in the pleadings are true, the claim for damages is viable. Likewise, the fourth claim that the defendant intentionally inflicted mental and emotional suffering on the autistic plaintiff will not be struck as is not plain and obvious from the pleadings that the claim cannot succeed. The plaintiffs’ application for an interlocutory injunction was dismissed because the claims that have not been struck are not rationally connected to the injunction, even assuming the remaining claims present a serious issue to be tried they do not justify a finding that the plaintiffs will suffer irreparable harm if the injunction is refused and the balance of convenience weighs in favour of not granting an injunction.","The plaintiffs are the five children of the Lawless family, who reside near Maryfield. They attended a French language school, which was made possible by provisional permission granted to them by the defendant. In February 2013, the defendant informed the plaintiffs that their provisional permission to attend was not being extended for the 2013-2014 school year. At the conclusion of the hearing, the application to dismiss the claim was reserved, while the application for an interlocutory injunction was dismissed with written reasons to follow. The parties consistently referred to the defendant as the 'CÉF'. HELD: The Court found that the family’s decision to exclude the plaintiffs from the school was based entirely on the failure of the parents to live up to their commitments. The CÉF had no authority to decide whether it would admit any non-Canadian children to attend a fransaskois school in Saskatchewan, and neither it nor the SHRC may inquire into its reasons or interfere with the exercise of its discretion.  1) The Court rejected the parents’ application to strike the statement of claim as an abuse of process.  2) There was no evidence that the parents obstructed or deliberately failed to comply with their obligations under s. 42.1 of The Education Act. The court found that it would be impossible for the plaintiffs to strike their claim for non-compliance with s. 25(1) of The Act. 3) The children were awarded provisional permission for the duration of the school year, subject to conditions including the granting of a service dog to the children. 4) The court awarded the plaintiffs general damages for out-of-pocket expenses, travel expenses, expenses, the cost of training and re-training of the service dog notwithstanding compensation that might otherwise be available in the amount of $100,000."
4_2000canlii2523.txt,"The applicant, having received a tentative subdivision approval, applied for final approval. In the meantime, the Municipality's road construction specifications had become more stringent and his proposal did not comply with the new specifications. The development officer found the application to be incomplete and the applicant applied for certiorari and mandamus. Certiorari granted; declaration issued that application for final subdivision approval was complete; order for mandamus granted and the development officer directed to issue final approval (subject only to the applicant correcting the technical error in the plan). The development officer's decision was based on interpretation of relevant legislation and the proper standard of review is correctness. The development officer misinterpreted the legislation. Since the applicant had already received tentative approval under the old regime, it did not have to meet the new higher standards for final approval. There was not another legal remedy open to the applicant equally convenient, beneficial and appropriate. The right of appeal under the legislation existed only from a refusal by a development officer and technically, this was not a refusal as the application was found incomplete. Both the right of appeal under the Act and the Board's power to grant an appeal were limited, either of which could result in the applicant having no remedy","The applicant land developer applied for and received tentative subdivision approval in 1997. Shortly thereafter, the Municipality passed a new subdivision by-law requiring higher road standards. The applicant submitted its last plan for final approval on March 14, 2000. The next day, the application was determined by the development officer to be incomplete for essentially two reasons: 1) it failed to meet the newly incorporated road standards; and 2) one of the bearings on the plan was missing. The Municipality relied upon s. 278 of the Municipal Government Act in its submission that the required change in road standards represented a major obstacle for the applicant. Application set aside; on the same basis, the applicant is entitled to a declaration that the application for final subdivision is complete, (again subject to non-contentious error in the plan)."
b_2012skqb309.txt,"SGI applied on behalf of the defendant for an order under Queen's Bench Rule 107A(c) and s. 7 of The Contributory Negligence Act for leave to add the City of Saskatoon as a third party to the action. The defendant is being sued by the plaintiff for damage caused to a construction site under a bridge in Saskatoon. The damage is alleged to have been caused when the defendant's truck left the ramp leading onto the bridge and fell into an excavation pit. The defendant argues that the City should be added as a third party because the City did not take proper steps to clear snow from the ramp, which provided a surface for his vehicle to launch off of. HELD: The application to add the City of Saskatoon as a third party was granted. The applicant has made out a prima facie case against the proposed third party. There is no prejudice to the plaintiff because he has settled with his insurer and is requesting settlement with the defendant's insurer. There is a causal connection between the cause of action plead in the statement of claim and the third party notice. It is immaterial at this stage that the City may have an absolute defence.","FIAT: This is an application by Saskatchewan Government Insurance on behalf of the defendant for an order pursuant to Rule 107(c) of the Queen's Bench Rules and s.7 of the Contributory Negligence Act granting leave to the defendant to add the City of Saskatoon as a third party to this action. The defendant is being sued by the plaintiff for damage to a construction site under the Senator Sid Buckwold Bridge caused as a result of his truck leaving the surface of the road at the head of the bridge going over the guardrail and falling into the excavation pit. The plaintiff alleges the road condition was icy on the exit ramp leading up to the Buckwick Bridge and the City had not taken steps to address the icy road surfaces. To refuse the application under s. of The Contributory negligence act would likely result in the requirement for a second litigation process to be commenced, that being by the defendants against the proposed third party claiming contributory negligence.HELD: The application was granted as requested. The court reviewed the case of Truong v. Saskatoon (City), 2001 SKQB 419 (CanLII), wherein Wilkinson J. stated at para. There is yet another ground on which the City is absolved from liability. The Supreme Court of Canada in Lewis recognized that it was entirely permissible for local authority to limit its liability. Section 154(1.1) of The Urban Municipality Act states that a city is not liable for damage caused by the presence, absence, type of any wall, fence, guardrail, railing, curb, pavement markings, traffic control device or barrier. The application is purely one of procedure and no substantive rights between the parties can be determined on it. It is not proper to assess evidence or go into possible defences."
1994canlii3880.txt,"The accused, a young offender, pleaded guilty to 16 counts of auto theft. He was sentenced to 6 months open custody and 2 years probation. Prior to being sentenced, he spent 13 days on remand and 2 months under house arrest under s.7.1 of the Young Offenders Act. The Crown appealed the sentence. HELD: Appeal allowed. 1)The accused was 15 years of age and had no record. He assisted the police once apprehended. 2)Although another young offender involved in these offences had received a sentence of 9 months open custody, uniformity of sentence was not a factor to be given great weight in comparing dispositions of young offenders. 3)The sentence was increased to 10 months open custody.","A 19 year old youth pled guilty to 16 counts of auto theft, one count of possession of stolen auto and 1 count of dangerous driving. He spent 13 days on remand and approximately 2 months under strict parental control on house arrest prior to receiving a disposition of 6 months open custody and 2 years probation. The Crown appeals the disposition arguing it is not fit having regard for the number of offences and the need to maintain the public's confidence in the administration of justice. HELD: Appeal allowed. 1)The Youth Court judge counted the time J.M. had spent under house arrest as secure custody. The father assisted the police with solving other crimes, placing himself in other crimes and implicating others for which actions he received threats. 2)J.M.'s principal partner in these auto thefts was [T.D.] who received 8 months' open custody for some 19 auto thefts and attempts. 3)The youth was given the opportunity to participate in the escape described in relation to him but made the conscious decision not to do so."
d_2007skqb324.txt,"This is an application by the accused for an order that evidence obtained by way of a telephone interception be ruled inadmissible because it is irrelevant. Alternatively, the accused seeks exclusion of the intercepted communication on the basis that it was conducted in violation of s. 8 of the Charter and ought to be excluded under s. 24(2). The accused is charged with abuse of a position of trust contrary to s. 153(1)(a) of the Code. HELD: The evidence is admissible. The accused's application is dismissed. 1) After examining the transcript of the conversation, it is immediately evident that the contents of the communication are relevant. The complainant and the accused are discussing the intimate details of their relationship. The conversation is logically probative to the charge. 2) The learned provincial court judge did in fact have sufficient evidence before him to issue the telephone intercept authorization. The complainant was prepared to initiate a telephone call to the accused and engage him in a conversation which would likely cause the accused to make admissions or statements which could be confirmatory of her allegations. 3) The authorization clearly permits the police to intercept private communications in relation to an offence under s. 271(1) of the Code. That investigation was live and bona fide at the time that the authorization was obtained. The law in this country is that evidence of other crimes revealed during the course of a lawful intercept process does not render the evidence obtained inadmissible in relation to an offence not named in the authorization. The focus is on whether the interception was lawfully obtained and executed, not on what is discovered. Here the police obtained a valid authorization to intercept private communications in relation to an offence under s. 271(1) of the Code. During the investigation of that charge, they obtained evidence which is relevant to an offence under s. 153(1)(a) of the Code. The fact that the offence of s. 153(1)(a) is not named in the authorization nor included as an offence for which an authorization to intercept private communications could be obtained, does not affect the admissibility of the evidence. Therefore, there is no Charter breach. 4) Even if the evidence was obtained in violation of s. 8 of the Charter, such evidence is considered non-conscriptive evidence. Where the evidence is non-conscriptive, the court ought to go on to do a balancing as to whether or not the evidence ought to be excluded pursuant to s. 24(2) of the Charter. The factors to be considered are trial fairness, seriousness of the breach and the effect of exclusion. In this case if there is a breach, it was not serious and was inadvertent, the result of unmindful draftsmanship. There is no evidence of bad faith. There is no evidence of manipulation. The seriousness of the breach, if there was one, was minimal, and to admit the evidence would not bring the administration of justice into disrepute.","The accused applied for an order that evidence obtained by way of a telephone interception be ruled inadmissible because it is irrelevant and the accused seeks exclusion of the intercepted communication on the basis that it was conducted in violation of s. 8 of the Charter. HELD: The accused's application was dismissed. 1) The evidence was relevant and admissible in that it did not violate the accused's s.8 rights. Even if there was an invalid authorization to intercept private communications, such an intention amounts to pure speculation and falls short of what could be considered reasonable grounds to believe that information concerning the offence would be obtained through the interception sought. The evidence ought to be excluded pursuant to s. 24(2) because the breach was not serious and inadvertent and admitting the evidence would not bring the administration of justice into disrepute.  2) There was no Charter breach. The officer who authorized the interception did not have to choose his audience or participate in the conversation. The consenting party was the person who initiated the conversation and engaged the accused in conversation that was surreptitiously intercepted by the police. 3) The respondent consented to have her private communications with Wendell Willick intercepted in order to assist the police with their investigation of the offences outlined above. The respondent's consent to the conversation did not compel or coerce the appellant to speak. 4) There is no evidence of bad faith, which could reasonably be expected given the circumstances of this case. The conduct of the conversation was non-conscriptive evidence and was properly admitted by the trial judge.  5) The Court reviewed the provisions of the Criminal Code and therelevant case authorities. The Court viewed the seriousness of the breach to be minimal and admitted the evidence."
2010skqb145.txt,"The parties were in a relationship for over 5 years though they never married. The petitioner now seeks access to the respondent's daughter from an earlier relationship. The parties' relationship was tumultuous and included some incidents of domestic violence, which the child may have been exposed to. There are concerns regarding the interactions between the respondent's daughter and the petitioner's own children. The petitioner must establish, firstly, that he has 'sufficient interest' to bring this application, per s. 6(1) of The Children's Law Act, 1997. HELD: The application for access is dismissed. In determining whether a non-family applicant is a person with a sufficient interest, the Court must consider a variety of factors including: the extent or degree of the applicant's involvement in the child's life, the duration of that involvement, the level of intimacy and the quality of the relationship between the applicant and the child, how the relationship between the applicant and the child was represented to the world, and whether the applicant provided financially for the child. The petitioner has demonstrated that he is a person of sufficient interest; the relationship between the parties was not short and, during its lifespan, the petitioner formed a close bond with the child and was involved with her life. The community viewed them generally as father and daughter. However, the Court cannot conclude that requiring the child to visit the petitioner would be of any benefit to her. This child has already had to contend with multiple 'fathers' and multiple 'siblings', many of whom have been only temporary or fleeting personalities in her life. The confusion that this has no doubt caused her should not be further compounded by requiring her to make even more adjustments in her understanding of what 'family' means. Access to the petitioner is not in the best interests of this child.","The parties were permanently separated. Now, the petitioner is seeking access to the respondent's daughter from an earlier relationship. That child is an 11 year old. HELD: 1) The respondent is a person of sufficient interest to the petitioner. He did not need to establish that he falls within the category of persons having a'sufficient interest' in order to bring this application. The Court reviewed the factors enumerated in s. 7 of The Family Maintenance Act and found that the respondent was not in the best interests of the child. 2) The Court found that it was indisputable that the child had a relationship with the respondent because of the fact that he was a step-parent to her and that he provided child care when the parties lived together. The respondent's prior record as a person standing in the place of parent to the child speaks for itself. 3) To date, the relationship between the respondent and the petitioner has spanned the years 2000 to 2007. The relationship spanned when the petitioner was barely a toddler. Over those years, the respondent provided care for the child, participated in many school activities, provided child maintenance and provided child support and was regularly involved in the family life. There was no evidence at trial as to whether the respondent had any financial support or if he was more successful in harmonizing the complex relationships between his and the children of two families. There is no presumption that access between the petitioner and the respondent is in her best interests."
e_2011skqb444.txt,"In the evening, the accused inmate and his two co-accused inmates placed themselves in close proximity to the complainant inmate at table at the Penitentiary. The co-accused threw hot liquid from the cup directly into the complainant's face and the three inmates commenced stabbing the complainant with weapon. second complainant inmate attempted to intervene to assist the first complainant and the accused and co-accused began to stab the second complainant. The first complainant suffered severe first and second degree burns to his face and to his shoulders as well as numerous puncture wounds and lacerations but was not critically injured. The accused was charged with aggravated assault on the first complainant and common assault on the second complainant. None of the inmates testified at trial other than the accused. The accused testified that he felt he was being shunned in the Block and had received threats from the first complainant and others in the complainant's group who were brandishing shanks earlier that day. The defence argued that the Crown failed to prove that the injuries caused to the first complainant fell within the definition of 'wound, maim, disfigure or endanger life'; and that the acts done to the first and second complainants were in self-defence as contemplated by s. 34 of the Criminal Code. HELD: The accused was convicted of both counts. 1) In relation to the accused's defence of self-defence pursuant to s. 34(2) pertaining to the first complainant, the Court found the accused did not believe that he was being assaulted within the meaning of the law and, even if he did hold this belief, such a belief was not reasonable in the circumstances. Further, the Court did not accept, on a subjective or objective basis, that the accused reasonably believed that the first complainant had the present ability to carry out the threat, notwithstanding that the physical aspect of the assault need not be imminent or immediate. Lastly, the Court found that the accused did not believe that he had no other option. The accused admitted that he had other options but chose not to avail himself of them. 2) The Court found it did not need to assess the application of s. 37 of the Code in relation to the common assault charge. Rather, the Court found s. 27 of the Code applicable and determined that the second complainant was legally justified to use as much force as was reasonably necessary to prevent the commission of an offence which would be arrestable without warrant. The Court found the second complainant was clothed in legal justification and the accused was not entitled to the protection of s. 34(1) because the accused provoked the assault, and the force he used was more than necessary to defend himself as the accused was armed with a shank and the second complainant was not.","HELD: The Court found that the accused was guilty of two counts of aggravated assault and one count of common assault. The Court considered three elements of the argument: 1) that the Crown had failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the injuries caused to the victim fell within the definition of a wound, maim, disfigure or endanger life; 2) that knife's actions were done in self-defence as contemplated by s. 34(2) of the Criminal Code; and 3) that Knife reasonably believed that he was being assaulted. The accused was acquitted of all three elements. The Crown must establish the mental element; the mens rea requirement for aggravated assault is an objective foresight of bodily harm; and 4) that knives were involved in the joint assault."
1995canlii4465.txt,"The plaintiffs statement of claim was served on the defendant in Ontario two days after it was issued. Two weeks later the prothonotary issued default judgment for $8,000, plus $2,880 in interest and $404.42 in costs. The defendant applied, pursuant to Civil Procedure Rule 12.06, to set aside the default judgment, on the ground that the plaintiff did not meet the requirements for obtaining a default judgment from the prothonotary or, in the alternative, on the merits that it had, by affidavit evidence, raised triable issues and provided a reasonable excuse for its failure to file a defence. Dismissing the application with costs of $1,000 to the plaintiff, that although the plaintiff ought to have sought the court's leave to take default judgment such a procedural ommission did not, in the circumstances, prejudice the defendant. Further, while there were triable issues between the parties, the defendant's failure to file a defence was neither a mistake nor an oversight, but rather a deliberate decision so as not to attorn to Nova Scotia jurisdiction, and therefore was not a reasonable excuse.","The plaintiff was the successor corporation of an amalgamation company which included Sweeney Limited. The defendant entered into a letter arrangement with the plaintiff to represent its share of the plaintiff's energy savings. The plaintiff refused to file a defence and brought an application to set aside the judgment. Dismissing the application, that the defendant had failed to establish any reasonable excuse for its failure to defend. The letter agreement did not constitute an enforceable contract and the defendant knew that there would be judgment against him in BC. It was not a mistake or an oversight that any irregularities which may have prompted the issuance of the default judgment were not such as to cause the Court to find that the Order was a nullity."
d_1998canlii13884.txt,"FIAT. The accused, charged with trafficking in a narcotic, sought an order for a judicial stay of proceedings pursuant to s.24(1) and (2) of the Charter on the basis his right under s.11(b) to be tried within a reasonable time has been breached. HELD: The application was dismissed. The delay was not unreasonable.  1)The 25 months between when the charge was laid in May 1996 and the trial date in November 1998 was sufficiant delay to raise the issue of the reasonableness of the delay. Defence did not waive delay. 2)There was no reason given for the three and one-half month delay between the swearing of the information and the arrest. The accused's right to a fair trial had not been prejudiced by the total time delay. His right to security of person and to liberty were not affected. 3)Seven months delay was due to scheduling delays resulting from defence's application to remove prosecution counsel who had previously represented the accused. The Crown acted in good faith in opposing the application and had a meritorious position. 4)All other proceedings were within the systemic guidelines. 5)Prejudice to his liberty was minor as he was on bail since shortly after his arrest. He was able to make full answer and defence. He was employed throughout since his release. His inability to enter long term contracts or travel out of province would have existed for 21-1/2 months of the 25 month delay in any event. 6)Individual and family stress is to be expected. The minor prejudice beyond the normal and expected was not sufficient to outweigh society's interest in bringing those charged with criminal offences to trial.","FIAT. The accused sought an order for a judicial stay of proceedings pursuant to s.24(1) and (2) of the Charter on the basis his right under s.11(b) to be tried within areasonable time has been breached. The application was adjourned to June 2, 1998 for show cause hearing. On that date the matter was set over to February 11, 1997 for election. In that motion, defence counsel advised the Court that he was objecting to the prosecutor continuing as prosecutor because he wished to bring an application to have him removed. The Crown argued that at no point during the way did it waive the delay and the delay of approximately 7 months which resulted from its desire to have a ruling made on the conflict of interest alleged was solely attributable to the Crown. Defence counsel took the position the opposition by Mr. Kohlenberg to defence counsel's request was prompted by good faith and was not without merit. It is not known whether the actions of the accused caused the delay or if the reasons for the delay were the same. HELD: Application dismissed. 1)It is not for the court to decide how the motion would have been decided had it proceeded. The Court was satisfied that the Crown had a meritorious position (regardless of whether it was a winning position or a losing position) and it did have a favorable position (Vide: R. v. Morin, 1995 CanLII 63, 30 C.R.R.(2d) 359 (Ont. C.A.)). 2)The length of delay was sufficient to raise the issue of the reasonableness of 25 months. 3)The Crown did not have a special interest in the issue. The delay was caused by the absence of proper preliminary procedures and strategy. There was no evidence that any ruling made by the preliminary inquiry judge would be restricted to the conduct of the proceeding at preliminary inquiry (s.537(i) C.C.C.) and could not extend to a trial judge following any committal. 4)The Court was not able to determine if the delay was unreasonable or caused by any of the factors listed in the Morin analysis. In this case, the only reason for delay was because of scheduling delays which occurred as a result of defence's application to remove the prosecutor prior to the preliminary hearing."
6_2017skca42.txt,"Statutes – Interpretation – Limitation of Civil Rights Act, Section 2The appellants had granted a residential mortgage in favour of the respondent that secured a loan in the amount of $460,800. The loan was a consolidation of existing debt, part of which was the balance of $373,089 owed on the original loan that had enabled the appellants to purchase the land. The remaining $87,711 was non-purchase money financing approved by the respondent. The appellants fell into default, and the respondent commenced foreclosure proceedings when the balance owed had increased to $536,186. The property was sold through judicial listing orders and the net sale proceeds were paid to the respondent. As the proceeds were insufficient, the respondent sought an order entitling it to the deficiency. The Chambers judge considered s. 2 of The Limitation of Civil Rights Act (LCRA) and held that the amount of the deficiency should be $162,675.99. The issues on appeal were how the proceeds of sale should be applied against the mortgage balance and what the proper amount of the deficiency was. HELD: The appeal was allowed. The court reviewed the purpose and policy behind the LCRA. It then examined its conflicting decisions in Hrynewich Holdings and Andrews and held that the latter was a per incuriam judgment and therefore not binding and the approach set out in Hrynewich would guide the disposition of this appeal. Therefore, it found with respect to each issue that the holding in Hrynewich meant that payments should be allocated on a pro-rated basis to purchase money and non-purchase money debt balances and the proper amount of the deficiency to which the respondent was entitled to judgment against the appellants was $31,160.23.","This appeal concerns the application of s. of the Limitation of Civil Rights Act (LCRA) in relation to a motion for deficiency judgment by the respondent bank. The main issue relates to how the proceeds of sale of property by judicial listing should be applied against a mortgage balance when there are both purchase money and non-purchase money balances. The issue on appeal revolves around s. 2 of the LCRA. The LCRA states that the right of a lender to recover the unpaid balance of a mortgage securing the purchase price of farmland is restricted to the land to which the mortgage or agreement relates as well as to any collateral security including a security of interest. The portion of the loan attributable to the purchase of the land is 64.03% ($96,900.00) and is credited against the purchase money portion. The balance owed by the appellants fell into default and the respondent commenced foreclosure proceedings. At that time the balance owed had grown to $536,186.72. The property was sold through judicial listing orders and the net sale proceeds were paid to the respondent. However, these proceeds were not sufficient to satisfy the loan. The respondent then sought an order entitling it to the deficiency judgment. Hrynewich Holdings was the controlling authority with respect to the portion owing to the mortgage. The appellant was awarded judgment in the amount of $162,675.99 against the mortgage balance. The appeal was allowed in part on the basis that the judge pro-rated the calculation pursuant to the percentage owing on both the purchase and nonpurchase funds. The court reviewed the cases and found that s. 25 of the Saskatchewan Farm Security Act should be interpreted liberally thereby permitting the sale proceeds ($372,444.01) to be applied to the purchaser money portion first or in the alternative, the proceeds should be distributed between the two portions on pro rata basis. HELD: Appeal allowed.  1) The conclusion in Andrew (CA) would not have been made had the court considered it in its entirety.  2) The Court found that the appellant respects the spirit and intent of The Land Contracts (Actions) Act and is the correct interpretation to be placed on that provision. In addition, the Court accords with the policy behind the legislation as set out in this judgment."
b_2015skpc171.txt,"HELD: The defendant was ordered to present argument on the return date on whether the circumstances warranted consideration as an “exceptional circumstance” pursuant to s. 37(2) of the Act, to determine whether the application should proceed."," Default judgment at case management was granted in the within matter December 1, 2014 against the defendants, Mario Di Battista and R-Rock Concrete (2013) Ltd. (R-Rock). The default judgment was set aside pursuant to s. 37(1) of the Small Claims Act, now in excess of one year from the granting of the judgment. HELD: The application to have the default judgment set aside is granted in exceptional circumstances. The court directs that a copy of this fiat accompany the s.37 summons to be served upon the respondent. Given the inordinate amount of time that has elapsed, the court directed that upon the return date argument is to be presented first as to whether the circumstances warrant consideration as an 'exceptional circumstance' permitting the application to proceed and then whether on the merits, the judgment ought to be set aside."
c_2003skpc17.txt,The accused was charged with failure to provide forthwith a breath sample contrary to Criminal Code s.254(5). HELD: The accused was found not guilty. The court accepted the evidence of the accused where there was a discrepancy between the testimony of the officer and the accused. The mental element of the offence of refusal consists of intentional non-compliance. The officer in his conversation with another officer said he could not understand why he was not getting a proper sample. There was a reasonable doubt that the officer did understand why he was not getting a proper sample and could not provide the accused with adequate instructions.,"The accused was charged with failing to comply with a demand made to him by a Saskatchewan Peace Officer pursuant to s. 254(2)(a) of the Criminal Code to provide forthwith a sample of his breath as in the opinion of Cst. Rozario, a peace officer pursuant to Section 254(3)(a)(the Criminal Code was necessary to enable proper analysis of my breath to be made by means of an approved screening device. HELD: The accused was found guilty.  1) The officer's lack of cander in giving his testimony in this regard has raised doubts in my mind as to his forthrightness in respect to other important details in this matter. It is for this reason and as result of my observations of the accused while he was testifying, that the Court prefers the accused's testimony over that of the officer's. 2) The accused did not intentionally try to avoid providing an adequate sample. He was attempting to supply sample as directed by the officer. The officer gave his evidence in a forthright manner and accepted it without reservation.  3) There was no reason to provide instructions to the Court as to how to provide such an instruction. The Court was satisfied that the accused gave forthright and unequivocal evidence that this was his attempt to explain to himself why things did not work on the night in question as opposed to his usual explanation of how things should have worked."
d_1997canlii11011.txt,"An application to vary the terms of a 1995 consent judgment such that the applicant would have sole custody. Alternatively he sought an order preventing the mother from removing their daughter from Saskatchewan. The father obtained an ex parte order preventing the mother from removing the child from the province until the return date of the motion. The mother had always been the primary caregiver and had custody since the separation in 1994. The father had exercised regular and frequent access. She was given exclusive possession of the matrimonial home under the terms of the consent judgment which contemplated the home would be listed for sale and the net proceeds divided between the parties. Subsequent to the consent judgment the applicant went through bankruptcy proceedings in which he transferred his interest in the home to the trustee who then sold that interest to the respondent such that the applicant no longer had any interest in the home. HELD: 1)Relocation was neither foreseen nor reasonably contemplated by the judge making the original order. The threshold criteria was thus satisfied. 2)The trial of an issue was required as the matter could not be decided on the basis of affidavit evidence. The child had a close relationship with both parents. The disruption as a result of a change in custody or removal of the child from the community could not be assessed. 3)The applicant's request for interim relief was denied. If the mother proceeded with her move a revision of the access provision would be appropriate. 4)The child's best interest is the proper test to be applied (Cote) having regard to the factors identified by the Supreme Court of Canada in Gordon. 5)The applicant became aware in early June of the mother's intention to move to British Columbia and did not object. The timing of the application, a few weeks prior to the proposed move, raised the suspicion that it was the respondent's decision to sell the matrimonial home which prompted this application.  6)Costs were left to the trial judge.","An application to vary the terms of a consent judgment such that the applicant would have sole custody of his daughter in the alternative. In the alternative the applicant sought an order preventing the respondent from removing their daughter from Saskatchewan. HELD: 1)The respondent was a good mother. She consented to the judgment of divorce and its provisions with respect to custody and access as he did not wish to expose his daughter to a custody dispute and wished for her to remain in the home she had always lived in. 2)The timing of the application (a few weeks prior to the proposed move) raised the suspicion that it was the respondent's decision to sell the matrimonial home which prompted this application. 3)The applicant was granted interim relief.  4)The court must have regard to the factors identified by the Supreme Court of Canada in Gordon. 5)The application was heard on affidavit evidence.  6)It was clear from the material material that the child had a close relationship with both parents, however that only scratched the surface in terms of the relationship between the child and each parent.  7)The Court must be cognizant of the fact that a change in residence pending trial will result in disruption to the child's ability to meet her needs."
4_2000canlii2633.txt,"The parties were married for 14 years and separated in 1995, entering into a detailed Separation Agreement in 1998. The two children of the marriage are 16 and 8 years of age. There was a long history of relatively short terms of employment and several moves to take employment. The respondent had a grade 12 education and some university courses but no practical skills or training. For the past 3 years, the respondent had made no reasonable efforts for employment, developed no skills of a practical nature, and derived her income from child support payments and the Child Tax Credit and by incurring debt in excess of $20,000.00 The parties had entered bankruptcy during the course of the marriage and had no assets or savings or pension entitlement at the time of separation or acquired since. The petitioner now earned an annual salary of $115,500.00. The Agreement did not address the level of child support in accordance with the Federal Child Support Guidelines, nor did it provide for practical retaining by the Respondent to facilitate employment. This was an exceptional situation that required some adjustment to the Agreement reached by the parties. The court ordered the establishment of a retraining fund of $6,500.00 with direct payments to whatever institution the Respondent may choose. Limited spousal support was to terminate on the earlier of completion of the retraining allowance or transfer of the balance of the outstanding to the Respondent on September 1st, 2001. An adjustment was also made to account for arrears in child support and child support payments.","The parties were married 14 years and separated approximately 14 years later. There was a petition for divorce issued in 1996. There have been a number of Interim Applications and Interim Orders since the separation. The husband has $150,000 worth of life insurance available through employment which provides 80 per cent coverage for his children and 20 per cent for Ms. Jessup. The wife has no independent legal advice as to whether or not this should be adjusted for all or part of the direct income tax obligation incurred on the $6,000.00 taxable benefit. HELD: 1)The parties had never had any financial stability in part because they far too readily accessed credit based on future expectations of capacity that never been realized and they would be wise to cease utilization of credit for short term relief. Doing so in the long run imperils the ability to provide properly for the children. The court found that this was an exceptional situation that required some adjustment. 2)The wife was to have access to $8,000 in the U.S. for the duration of the marriage. She should be advised of the particulars of that account.  3)The husband was to pay $4,800 per month for medical and other benefits separate from the post-tax deductions for long term disabilities, $5,000 per month in rent, $1,800 for holidays with his sons and $83.00 for a five-month period in Bahrain. He was to retain life insurance for benefits that are substantially provided in Canada through general taxation, indirect taxation and consumption taxation. There would not be any jurisdiction remaining open for the court to make a limited realistic adjustment."
5_1995canlii4187.txt,"This was an appeal from the conviction of the appellant that he broke and entered a used car dealership and stole a vehicle, contrary to s. 348(1)(b) of the Criminal Code. The theft was reported to police by a passing motorist who saw the vehicle being driven off the car lot early in the morning. The vehicle was spotted on the highway, and when stopped, was exited by two individuals. Two officers followed tracks through a wooded area, and noted that in two areas the tracks broke through ice on a brook. Shortly thereafter the appellant came out of the woods on a nearby road; his lower body was wet and chunks of ice and snow clung to his clothing. The imprint of his footwear resembled that of the tracks in the snow. The appellant was convicted, based on the doctrine of recent possession. He argued there was no evidence he was in recent possession of the stolen vehicle. Dismissing the appeal, that there was sufficient evidence to support the findings of fact made by the trial judge. The judgment of the trial judge was consistent with R. v. Kowlyk (1988), 43 C.C.C. (3d) 1 (S.C.C.).","This was an appeal from a conviction for break, enter and theft. The appellant claimed the trial judge erred in law by applying the doctrine mainly because there was no evidence that he was in recent possession of the Blazer. Dismissing the appeal, that the doctrine of recent possession applied. It was found to apply because the appellant failed to provide an explanation. Allowing the appeal and ordering a review of the case, that although the evidence was circumstantial, the facts he found to be proved led to no reasonable inference than the guilt of the appellant."
3_1998canlii1847.txt,"The Workers' Compensation Board applied, by way of stated case, to have the Court answer questions with respect to the interpretation of certain provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act. There were 40 questions in total. The Court was asked to relate the questions to 19 factual summaries presented by the Board concerning cases before it. The Court was required to decide whether the questions were the proper subject matter of a stated case. Dismissing the stated case application, that the questions submitted are hypothetical and speculative. They are therefore inappropriate questions for a stated case, which requires that questions must be responsive to the facts and must not be speculative.","Appellant/applicant K.H. LeBlanc and Anne S. Clark dismissed the application. At issue was whether the Court should decline to answer questions submitted by the applicant regarding the interpretation of provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act pursuant to s.N.S. 1994-95. HELD: The application was dismissed without costs. The questions were not responsive to the evidence or to any determination made to date in the case and, indeed, by their very wording are speculative and hypothetical."
5_1993canlii6695.txt,"The plaintiff applied under Queen's Bench Rule 231 to strike the statements of defence of a corporate and individual defendant for failure to attend scheduled examinations despite service of an appointment and payment of conduct money to their solicitor. The defendants had previously been permitted to re-open judgments obtained against them and had filed defences. Prior to that they had consistently failed to attend examinations in aid of execution. Contempt proceedings had been commenced against them but were adjourned sine die at the time the defendants were permitted to defend. The defendants resisted the application on the basis that they were now non-residents and not compellable by an appointment, and that the designated officer of the defendant corporation was no longer an officer. This information had not been communicated to the plaintiff's solicitor who had acted in good faith on information given to him previously by the solicitors for the defendants. The examinations had been scheduled unilaterally because the defendants' solicitor consistently refused or neglected to return phone calls or correspondence from the plaintiff's solicitors. HELD: The judge refused to strike the defences holding that in the circumstances Queen's Bench Rule 231 did not apply. He also held that the defendants, considering their conduct throughout the whole course of the lawsuit, were in contempt and ordered them to attend without conduct money any examinations unilaterally scheduled by the plaintiff failing agreement between counsel as to dates. Costs were fixed at $1,500 in any event of the cause and were ordered to be paid within two weeks.","The plaintiff applied to strike the statement of defence of the corporate defendant on the ground that the designated officer of the corporation failed to appear at an examination for discovery on November 23, 1993. The plaintiff's solicitors had on several occasions telephoned the defendant's solicitor to schedule examinations for discovery and to obtain statements as to documents. None of the appointments were made. The defendant's lawyer then wrote to the plaintiff's solicitor proposing a range of dates for the examinations to be scheduled. He also stated that the corporation was presently residing in Vancouver and that he would need the appropriate conduct money. HELD: The defendants were guilty of contempt of court. The contempt proceedings were still before the court even though they were adjourned sine die at the time the defendants were permitted to file statements of defence. The current applications arose out of unsuccessful attempts by the plaintiff to examine the defendants. The defendants abused the discretion of the court that was exercised in their favour to set aside judgments obtained against them and to permit them to file defences. Their conduct can be characterized as contemptuous. The non-attendances of the defendants in 1993 do not constitute'refusing or neglecting to attend' within the meaning of Rule 231. It cannot be utilized respecting these particular non- attendances to strike their statements of defense."
1998canlii3382.txt,"The appellant employer and the respondent union are parties to a collective agreement with effect from January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1996. The collective agreement established employee salaries for that period, with annual adjustments on January 1st of each year. Shortly before the agreement was signed, the Public Sector Compensation Act was passed, which rolled back and froze public sector salaries. In a letter to the union, the employer confirmed the wage increases provided for in the agreement would be paid to the employees as a lump sum following the expiration of the legislated wage freeze. After the expiration of the wage freeze, however, the employer refused to pay the lump sum on the grounds that it would contravene the Act. The union sued the employer in the Supreme Court, claiming the lump sum or, in the alternative, damages for negligent misrepresentation. The employer applied to strike the Statement of Claim on the grounds that the union's claims were within the exclusive jurisdiction of an arbitrator. The Chambers judge dismissed the application. The employer appealed. Allowing the appeal and staying the action pending submission to arbitration as provided for in the collective agreement, that the Chambers judge erred in allowing the action to continue. Where there is a doubt about the arbitrability of a dispute, that issue should generally be determined at arbitration. This reflects the central role of arbitration in collective bargaining labour relations, recognizes that arbitration is the forum best suited to conducting the necessary inquiry, and helps ensure that no one, absent sound reasons, will be left with rights but no effective remedy.","The court allowed the appeal, set aside the order of a Chambers judge and in its place direct that the action be stayed pending submission to arbitration. The employer appealed on the grounds that the union's claims were outside the exclusive jurisdiction of an arbitrator. The chambers judge dismissed the application. The issue was whether the letter of July 22, 1994 was an ancillary document and whether it constituted part of the collective agreement. For the appellant, that the Chambers judge erred in allowing the court action to continue. Appeal allowed; the court's jurisdiction is limited to the determination of arbitrator's jurisdiction under the Trade Union Act."
e_1999canlii12700.txt,"The parties were married in September 1996 and subsequently separated in April of 1999. The parties both seek custody of their only child born in October 1997. The issues before the court is interim custody and primary residence of the child, access by the other parent and interim child maintenance. The parties filed evidence that was considerably contradictory relating to each other and respective abilities as parent. viva voce hearing was held to assist determining the questions of credibility. The mother aged 31 years of age, is employed as secretary. The mother remained at home during the first year of the child's birth then returned to work. The mother suffered from post partum depression following the child's birth and as result attempted to commit suicide. She was hospitalized for three weeks to receive psychiatric assistance. The psychiatrist who treated the mother states the mother is unlikely to have future suicide attempts and has responded well to treatment. The child was with the mother every afternoon during her hospitalization and the mother bonded with her son. The father is currently employed at Ipsco on shift work and is currently living with his parents. The father has had the child since the separation and the child has had little access with his mother. HELD: The child's primary residence should be with the mother. Based on the information before the Court, the mother has always been the primary caregiver of the child and remained at home with the child for the first year of his life. The mother was responsible for the child's day to day needs, health care and child care. As well the father asserts that he was involved in the child's health care needs but was unable to name the child's pediatrician. The father will have access to the child for three days when he is not working including overnight access. The father's gross annual income is $48,897 which results in a payment to the mother for child maintenance in the sum of $393.00 payable on the first day of each and every month until further ordered by the Court. In addition the father will responsible for 75% of the child care expenses.","The parties separated in 1999 and each sought interim custody of their son, born October 10, 1997. The respondent alleges that the respondent is an abusive man with an alcohol problem. HELD: 1) The respondent is 31 years of age and is employed as unit secretary at the Regina General Hospital. She returned to work at the hospital for the first year after his birth. She has only permitted her to see her son on two occasions for four hours on each occasion. She is also a regular user of marihuana. 2) S.W.S. has taken steps to deal with her psychological and psychiatric difficulties. She denies she has been clinically depressed and addicted to alcohol. She says she stays out late in the bars, attends the Apollo motorcycle gang's clubhouse and uses narcotics including crack cocaine. 3) The Court found that S.H.'s gross annual income to be $48,897.00. The child shall be responsible for $2,393.99 for pro-rata costs."
5_2001skqb98.txt,"Issues of divorce, custody and access were disposed of by judgment given during the course of the trial by consent of the parties. Matrimonial property was to be divided, maintenance for the children and spousal support were to be determined. HELD: 1)Access was to be mutually agreed upon with the 18 year old to whom the respondent stood in loco parentis.  2)Expert evidence of tax implications was not called as the respondent failed to give notice as required by the Rules of Court. 3)The mother's annual income for purposes of the Guidelines was fixed at $11,376 not including the $300 child support she received from the natural father of the 18 year old. The respondent's farming income was determined on a 3 year average as it varied from year to year. The facts justified adding back 25% of the capital cost allowance on the machinery over the last 3 years for Guideline purposes. Day care and play school costs of $440 per month were to be divided according to their proportionate share based on the Guidelines. The respondent was to pay one-half of the cost of extra curricular activities and any future activities as agreed upon. The approach used in Cook v. Kilduff was adopted and the amount for the two natural children was deducted from the amount payable for three children. One-half of the difference was added to the Guideline amount of support for the two children. 4)Spousal support was not ordered. The mother was employed and the respondent's income was not likely to increase in the near future. Given he paid child support and the extra costs, their income was nearly the same. 5)Of the six quarter sections owned by the respondent prior to marriage, there was no equity in one and the increase in value in the others was marginal. Credit was given for the reduction in the mortgage debt by $24,000. There was no interest to be divided in the 1999 crops. 6)The petitioner was awarded judgment for $113,155.19 less $15,580 for assets in her possession and less one-half the appraisal costs. The judgment was to be a charge on the respondent's land. The petitioner may apply for judgment for the amount of the loan secured by the van in her possession if the respondent fails to pay off the loan. 7)Each was to pay his or her own costs.","The issue of divorce, custody and access was disposed of by judgments given during the course of the trial by consent of the parties. The respondent was awarded judgment for $113,155.19 less the sum of $15,580.00 (being the value of the assets in her possession) leaving a balance of $97,575.19 to be paid to the petitioner, less one-half the costs of the appraisals. The judgment shall be a charge on the respondent's personal land. The issue of access was decided on a three year average. The petitioner claimed she spent $100 per week of day care for the petitioner and she also paid $40 per month for Breeanna to attend play school. HELD: 1)The respondent's income was forecasted to increase in the near future. The capital cost allowance taken by the respondent was 25% of the average capital cost on the farm equipment. 2)There was no evidence as to the tax implications regarding matrimonial property although the respondent attempted to introduce such evidence through an expert. The expert failed to give notice of the expert.  3)Spousal support of $25,812.50 was ordered. 4)The petitioner's share of the $502,967 was declined. The court declined to order any spousal or financial support. 5)It was agreed the respondent could not be increased by adding back capital cost allowances for the sole purpose of bringing him to a level of income which was artificial just so it might appear he had the means with which to pay Spousal."
8_2001nssc179.txt,"The defendant obtained a tender to bank, blend and load coal at the plaintiff's coal preparation plant. In performing the contract, the defendant experienced equipment problems resulting in the plaintiff having to rent equipment from the defendant's predecessor. The plaintiff terminated the contract without any prior warning or notice to the defendant and brought an action for reimbursement of monies advanced under the contract and expenses incurred for the equipment rentals. The defendant counter-claimed for damages arising out of the termination of the contract, for services performed under the contract and for extras which had not been paid. Plaintiff entitled to reimbursement for overpayments and equipment rentals; defendant entitled to fair and reasonable compensation for extras for which court awarded the sum of $10,000. Both parties were in breach of the contract, the plaintiff's breach occurring because the volumes of coal supplied did not approximate the tonnages represented in the contractual documents. The clause excluding liability for errors in the forecast did not excuse the plaintiff because the actual volumes were not even approximate to the forecasted tonnages and the rates bid by the defendant were directly related to the anticipated tonnages. Absent evidence as to how the plaintiff arrived at the information used in the calculation of the forecasted tonnages, no negligent misrepresentation could be found, as there was no evidence that the information was negligently obtained. In respect to claims where on the evidence there was a loss, but it was difficult, if not impossible to quantify, damages were awarded even where it could be said the amount is a matter of guesswork.","The defendant/plaintiff sought reimbursement of monies advanced under the contract and expenses it incurred for equipment rentals and other activities it claimed were required because of the failure of the defendant to perform under the contracted contract. The plaintiff counterclaimed for damages arising out losses caused by the defendant's unjustified termination of the contract without prior notice. The contractual obligation to maintain the banks, ditches, railway tracks and roadways was to be construed by the wording in the contract as being the contract between the parties, and any variation in wording between the original invitation for tender and the 1985 invitation for tenders was inconsequential. The defendant was required to maintain and service the banks and in order to reduce the build up of methane gas and the risk of fire within the banks the plaintiff was to pay on the weights determined at the weight scale. Awarding the contract, that the volumes to be handled by the plaintiff fell into four categories. Banking, blending and loading coal, along with the lifting and blending of coal were to be performed on a three-shift basis on a five-day week on an 'as required' basis. Lifting and blending coal, on the other hand, fell into the third category. The equipment was used to process coal from various sources and of different grades. When fire occurred in the bank, it was necessary to concentrate efforts on removing the area of the bank subject to the fire, so as to avoid it spreading to the remainder of the Bank and thereby increasing the loss to the plaintiff. Maintenance of the banks was another category covered by the contract. Although the equipment was not the same type and model as it listed in the response to the tender, no objection was taken with the equipment delivered to the bank."
8_2010nssc219.txt,"The parties' hostility prevented them from reaching an agreement on interim parenting arrangements for their two-and-a-half-year-old child. There was a no contact order in place pending the outcome of domestic violence charges against the father (who had not seen the child for four months). The mother had nothing positive to say about him. They disagreed about the extent of his marijuana use, and the extent of his involvement with the child. He agreed to abstain from drugs around the child and for 12 hours before access. The mother expressed concern the father was a flight risk because he was from Egypt and had family support outside the country. Sole custody to the mother, with supervised access for a period of time (to reintroduce the father to the child), moving to increasingly longer periods of daytime access. The father must complete a parenting course to better learn how to meet the child's various needs. There was insufficient evidence to show he is unable to protect the child from her severe nut allergy. There was insufficient evidence to establish he is a flight risk. Even if he had threatened to flee with the child, it is relevant that he lacks the means to do so. While there has been unpleasantness and some violence between the parties, the evidence does not establish domestic violence of a nature that would require supervised access on an ongoing basis.","The mother sought to have the father's access supervised. The father is an abuser of marijuana and because of this abuse the child will be at risk if in his care. The Father has verbally and physically abused the child and presents a risk of harm to the child. Both parties agree there would need to be a gradual reintroduction between the father and child and that this should be managed by utilizing the services provided by Veith House. The mother was the primary care parent during her relationship with the father. The parties had an opportunity to prevent escalation and the father could have left without getting into a tug-of-war over the jacket. However, the evidence was inconclusive and the mother had not proven these allegations on the necessary balance of probabilities. HELD: 1)Joint custody does not mean that one parent has the right to micro-manage the daily care of a child by the other parent. The fact that there is no evidence the perpetrator has actually harmed the child is an insufficient reason to conclude the perpetrator presents no risk to his or her child. 2)The father was to attend a course in parenting such as those offered by Family SOS so that he will be better prepared to parent the child in the future. The evidence did not suggest he could not care for the child for two to three hour periods unsupervised.  3)There was no evidence that the father was under the influence of marijuana or that he was in any way influenced by the mother's allegations."
e_1996canlii7080.txt,"FIAT. The Crown applied to have a witness, who was an unindicted co-conspirator and separately charged with drug offences arising out of the same investigation, declared adverse pursuant to s9 of the Canada Evidence Act. She had contradicted her prior video taped statement made shortly after her arrest and had demonstrated hostile attitude towards the Crown. The defence took the position that she was now telling the truth; that the statement was improperly obtained in breach of the confession rules of voluntariness and the statement did not meet the requirements set out in R. v. K.G.B. HELD: The witness' prior statement may be introduced in evidence for the substantive truth of its contents. It will be for the jury to decide what, if any, portions of such statement they wish to accept. 1)A prior inconsistent statement cannot be introduced in evidence for its substantive content, unless the requirement of necessity, and a threshold of reliability arrived at on a balance of probabilities are established. When, as here, a witness recants, the requirement of necessity is established. The real issue is whether the prior statement meets the test for reliability. When, as here, there is only one demonstrably false piece of testimony in the statement, which does not implicate anyone but rather attempts to exonerate someone, the Court was not prepared to say ipso facto the statement is unreliable. 2)The independent evidence sufficiently corroborated her statement in enough different particulars that, but for the demonstrably false portion, it met the threshold of reliability.","FIAT. The Crown applied to have the accused declared adverse pursuant to s. 9 of the Canada Evidence Act on the basis that she has demonstrated ahostile attitude towards the position of the Crown, and hascontradicted in a substantial way, her prior video-taped statement to police officers made shortly after her arrest. The defence sought to use the prior statement, not only for the purposes of impeaching her credibility at trial, but also as substantive evidence that may be left with the jury at the end of the trial. HELD: The accused's prior statement was not unreliable. The oath administered prior to the taking of the statement did not place the accused's statement one step up from an unsworn statement. The reliability threshold is not met, even if the witness is sworn and warned prior to giving the statement, when it is subsequently known that at least portion of it is false. The fact that her motivation to do so was to help herself is a factor to be taken into account in assessing the reliability of her statement as it relates to third parties.  1)The evidence of an experienced cooperator was accepted along with the evidence of a person who had provided consistent testimony. 2)There was no discussion with the accused on the consequences of lying. 3)The oath administered post-sentence, accompanied by warning that the witness could be subject to perjury charges if the statement turned out to be untrue, did not meet the requirements set out in R. v. K.G.B. (1995). 4)The credibility test was not met. The statements could not be introduced in evidence for the substantive truth of their subjections. 5)The reliability threshold was not satisfied even if a witness was sworn and cautioned prior to providing the statement. Form should not override substance. The Court was satisfied that the oath was administered in accordance with the rules of voluntariness and that it met the threshold of reliability. It would be for the jury to decide after receiving appropriate instructions with respect to the evidence and evidence of that person who has provided inconsistent testimony, what, if any portions of such statement could be accepted."
e_1999canlii1479.txt,"The respondent was recruited by the respondents. Her job was to start quality assurance practice. She accepted an offer of employment, giving up her own company to do so. After 15 months she was dismissed. The trial judge in her action for wrongful dismissal and negligent misrepresentation did not find any negligent misrepresentation but awarded damages equivalent to five months notice for wrongful dismissal. The appellant appealed the dismissal of her claim for negligent misrepresentation and the notice period for her wrongful dismissal. The respondent cross-appealed the damage award, claiming the trial judge failed to take into account the appellant's failure to mitigate. Appeal and cross-appeal, that the evidence supports the trial judge's findings, and he did not make any errors in law.","The respondent cross-appealed for damages in an action for wrongful dismissal. The appellant contended the trial judge erred in failing to properly apply the principles of negligent misrepresentation as set out by the Supreme Court of Canada in Queen v. Cognos. Awarding the respondent $5 months pay in lieu of notice, that the five-month notice period was an effective disclaimer precluding any separate action in tort. The Court of Appeal reversed the judgment and dismissed the action on the basis that the misrepresentation was not 'negligent' and, in any event, the term in the contract providing for dismissal on notice was such a disclaimer that it did not constitute negligence. The trial judge did not accept the appellant's submissions that the respondents misrepresented the nature of the employment opportunity. HELD: The appeal could not succeed. 1)The trial judge failed to specifically address the arguments that the promise of job security and the assurance that she could work for the company until retirement, as well as the assurances of fair treatment, were inducements. Such inducements are properly included among the considerations which tend to lengthen the amount of notice.  2)The Court found that the conduct of the parties involved in the employment contract could not be concurrent with a duty defined by an express term of the contract. Strikingly, the Court held that the contractual provisions for notice did not bar an action in a tort case. 3)Although the appellant did not sign the contract, she was entitled to augmented damages because she was induced to leave her company and join KPMG and because the dismissal was in bad faith and the manner of the dismissal itself callous."
4_2005skqb542.txt,"The Government seeks an order pursuant to Rule 164(4) of the Queen's Bench Rules requiring the plaintiff to provide better particulars in response to its demand for particulars and pursuant to Rule 173 of the Rules and order striking portions of the pleadings. HELD: 1) The plaintiff has failed to identify the legislative scheme by which responsibility for education in Ile a la Crosse or specifically, responsibility for education of a group of people that included the plaintiff, was delegated to the Minister of Education or any other member of executive government. The Government is entitled to know the case it has to meet. If the plaintiff knows the statute and regulations on which he relies, he must provide particulars. If he does not have particulars of the statutes and regulations, he must so state. 2) The court was not prepared to strike the phrases 'without limiting the generality of the foregoing' and 'without limitation'. The conduct of examination for discovery and undertakings can provide the defendant with particulars of allegations to be made by the plaintiff in order to permit it to properly defend the action.  3) The Government demanded full particulars of the breach of trust and breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiff's response does not lay a foundation for either and the paragraphs are struck.  4) The court was satisfied that exemplary damages and punitive damages were synonymous and therefore only one of them should be pled to avoid confusion. The court directed that any reference to exemplary damages should be read as to include punitive damages and that only one phrase should be used. 5) As the cause of action clearly predates the coming into force of The Pre-judgment Interest Act, the provisions of that Act have no application to the plaintiff's claim.","The Government of Saskatchewan sought an order pursuant to Queen's Bench Rule 164(4) requiring the plaintiff to provide better particulars in response to its demand for particulars, and in default of so doing striking the offending portions of the statement of claim. HELD: The order was reserved pending the decisions of the Supreme Court of Canada. The Government was entitled to make any additional arguments. 1) The pleadings do not lay foundation for breach of fiduciary duty or breach of trust.  2) The Government failed to identify the legislative scheme by which responsibility for education in Ile a la Crosse was delegated to the Minister of Education or any other member of executive government. The claim for 'punitive and exemplary damages' was dismissed. 3) The evidence did not support the claim for punitive damages. 4) There was no evidence that the government put its own interests ahead of those of the plaintiff in order to properly defend the action and not be taken by surprise.  5) In cases where there is a chance that the plaintiff might succeed, the plaintiff should not be driven from the judgment seat. If the plaintiff knows the statutes and regulations on which he relies, he must provide particulars of same."
